in which the active ingredient fluoxetine is affected. Can the enormous amount of knowledge about the mechanisms of action, efficiency and tolerability of this substance reflect the need for an antidepressant in our society? In addition, as the prevalence among the “non-sick” shows, there are almost four million links on the Internet and hundreds of articles. Recently, the pill even made it onto the cover of TIME magazine on its own (Fig: 6).
It is impossible to show Prozac's implications in depression and in a gray off-label area of ​​larger social classes. What is certain, however, is that the social impact was and still is immense. There are popular books and music about Prozac; This is accompanied by discussions about sense and nonsense as well as the consequences of a widespread “treatment” in order to correspond to the social ideal of the happy person. In addition to this moderate criticism, the effectiveness compared to placebo is repeatedly questioned, the last time in 2008 by Kirsch et al. These scientists from Great Britain, USA and Canada write: "Meta-analyzes of antidepressant medications have reported only modest benefits over placebo treatment, and when unpublished trial data are included, the benefit falls below accepted criteria for clinical significance. Yet, the efficacy of the antidepressants may also depend on the severity of initial depression scores "a) [39]. The daily press made catchy headlines out of it. The British Guardian [40] headlines: "The creation of the Prozac myth", TIME magazine [41] explains its readers in the headline: "Antidepressants Hardly Help" (Antidepressants hardly help). But there are also differentiated voices. For example, the German Society for Psychiatry, Psychotherapy and Neurology speaks of one


Fig. 6. Prozac (fluoxetine) on the cover of TIME magazine (I: 1997, r: 2008) [38].


a) “Meta-analyzes of antidepressant treatments have shown only a moderately increased benefit compared to placebos, and if unpublished clinical data are included, the benefit falls under the criterion of clinical significance. However, the effectiveness of antidepressants could also depend on the severity of the initial depression ""
