psychotic excitement [9]. Due to Cade's lack of international reputation and the low level of awareness of the journal, the article received little attention and was only picked up later by the Danish psychiatrist Mogens Schon, who verified the results in 1954, Schon et al. confirmed Cade's findings in their tandomized study (The treatment of manic psychoses by the administration of. lithium salts) [10]. Lithium therapy became an advocate and the triumphal march in Europe began. In 1967, Schou published the results of his long-term study in patients with bi- and unipolar disorders who took lithium prophylactically for several years. This prevented the occurrence of depressive and manic phases in 70-80% of the patients [8]. However, the unpatentable pharmaceuticals did not catch on quickly everywhere, as Shorter wrote in 2009 [11]: “In 1970, the United States became the 50th country to admit lithium to the marketplace. Meanwhile, interest in lithium for the prophylaxis of depression was growing apace and today the agent is widely prescribed for that indication, even though it has not been accepted by the Food and Drug Administration. Lithium was almost derailed by a small group of opponents from the Maudsley Hospital and its status today is threatened by the 'mood stabilizers'. "B)
After soft drinks containing lithium had been popular a hundred years ago, John Cade discovered the effects of lithium salts by chance and Schow confirmed and propagated them in 1954, Japanese scientists published six decades later, in 2009, in the British Journal of Pschiatry under the title Lithium levels in drinking water and risk of suicide the following results: The higher the lithium ion level in drinking water, the lower the suicide rate.



Fig. 2. Advertisement (around 1900) for lithium-containing Londonderry water [48].



b) “In 1970 lithium was introduced to the market in the 50th country, the United States. In the meantime, interest in lithium for prophylaxis has grown rapidly and today the drug is often postponed for this indication, even though it was never approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Lithium's advance almost failed because of a small group of opponents from Maudsley Hospital, and today its status is threatened by mood stabilizers. "
