Aletamine (6; α-allylphenethylamine) showed various interesting pharmacological properties, but is not on the market. First, aletamine (6 was tested as an antipsychotic aid, but it turned out to be ineffective Bl. It was also investigated as a potential antidepressant 9. The compound also showed analgesic, hypotensive, anti-inflammatory, anorectic and anticonvulsant properties [7]. MeCarty et al. Derivatized Aletamine (6) to other compounds (7 and 8) in order to strengthen some properties of aletamine (6) [7], but without any notable success.

Compounds of type 2 are reminiscent of the anorectically active and stimulating pyrovalerones (9; safe Chapter 6.3.6) and Prolintan (10; see Chapter 3.2) as well as other aryl-substituted pyrovalerone analogs (see Chapter 7.5.7.3). The pyrovalerones act as inhibitors of the monoamine transporters and thus increase the monoamine concentrations without causing the monoamines to be released. This makes it more comparable to the mode of action of cocaine (reuptake inhibitor) and not to amphetamine (reuptake inhibitor and releaser). Omission of the β-keto function weakens the ability to inhibit the monoamine transporters. Prolintan (10) was marketed in Germany as Katovit® and, as a weak DAT inhibitor, only slightly increases drive.



Donetti et al. derivatized aletamine (6) to some analogues [8]. Below they described the two substances 11 and 12. Compound 11 was 1.6 times as potent as aletamine in the “hot plate test” (6). In addition, the two substances 11 and 12 showed CNS stimulation, recognizable, among other things, from the increased motor activity.


Compounds 13-23 have been patented as new psychostimulating agents among other substances [9]. They have a new spectrum of effects and, according to the patent holder, can be used in therapy for increased psychological activity (learning and remembering) and for treating depression as well as learning and memory deficits (e.g. Alzheimer's disease). Similar to Prolintan (10), due to the lack of catecholamine release, they are supposedly free of side effects, as they are usually known from stimulants, they therefore only act as transporter inhibitors,
