(see chapter 2.1.). However, after it was clearly shown that "this peculiar substance has an influence on the well-being, good mood, ability to work and sleep of normal people" [31], it was investigated in 1938 how an N-substitution affects its spectrum of activity [31] . The researchers were driven by the observation of Gordon Alks An
1933: Amphetamine (1) showed an antagonistic effect on sleeping pills [32] (hence the term wake-up amines: amines that are able to wake you). The authors now wanted to investigate whether there is a closer connection between the antinarcotic effect and the central effects clinically observed with amphetamine [31]. In a first experimental set-up, the relative waking effect of compounds 1-5 was tested on mice. First, the mice received dormin (ethyl-allyl-barbituric acid) administered (ip), and after an hour of sleep they were injected with the substances to be tested 1-5.Depending on the dose required to wake them up, the relative potency compared to amphetamine was obtained (1 ) (Table 1) [31].
The effects on humans were then observed. The experimental setup at that time is described here in extracts. A “food school” was set up, consisting of 100 young male unemployed people who had “graciously” made themselves available [31]. After a compensation phase (conditioning of food, sleep, etc.) of four months, either tablets with a substance to be tested (1-5) or a placebo were administered for two months at irregular intervals (every four to eight days), during the entire six Detailed questionnaires were submitted for months. A selection of the observed symptoms is listed in Table 2 (multiple answers possible). The numbers indicate the percentage of test persons in each group who reported the symptoms mentioned at the end of the test day (based on a selection made of the observed symptoms, the sum is not equal to one hundred).
Table 2 shows that the group with placebos gave almost the same information on symptoms as was obtained from people on “tablet-free” days. The effectiveness of the tested substances could be confirmed by comparison with the information provided by the persons to whom a substance had been administered. The order of the potency corresponds to that from the animal experiments. According to the authors' interpretation, amphetamine (1) and methamphetamine (2) in particular were able to develop an increased desire and ability to work, an appetite-suppressing effect, a cheerful mood, well-being and a sleep-disturbing effect.
