3.7. α, α-disubstituted phenylalkylamines

    If you add a methyl group to the α-C atom of amphetamine, you get the achiral α, α-dimethylphenethylamine (1) or α-methylamphetamine, which is called phentermine as a drug (trade names: Adipex®, Duromin®, Fastin®, Linyl®, Mirapront ", Normaform®, Obenix®, Zantryl® etc.). The name is derived from phenyl-tert-butylamın. This structure first appeared in 1943 when looking for a volatile amine with good vasoconstrictive, however As with other amines, the influence on blood pressure in dogs and the LD50 in rabbits were determined by 1. Phentermine (1) showed values ​​comparable to amphetamine in both tests.
    However, the hunger suppressant effects were later discovered; Phentermine (1) was approved by the FDA in the late 1950s, and so phentermine (1) is currently still used as a short-term treatment for obesity, but its use as an appetite suppressant is increasingly being excluded as significant side effects on the heart have been identified [2] , especially in combination with other centrally acting anorectics (phentermine alone does not seem to cause any heart valve defects [3]). The associated suspected cases of heart damage eventually led some countries to withdraw the drug from the market altogether. Phentermine received a lot of media attention in the 1990s as a diet preparation in combination with fenfluramine (Redux) - under the name Fen / Phen - because the combined intake of the active ingredients could clearly be associated with a heart valve change and pulmonary hypertension [3]. It is believed that these side effects were primarily caused by fenfluramine. It is not yet fully understood which mechanisms are responsible for these side effects. The focus is on the serotonin transporter (SERT) and the 5HT2B receptor. Activation of the latter can cause pulmonary vasoconstriction [4]. Rorhman et al. showed that anorectics, which are substrates of SERT, can pose a risk of developing pulmonary hypertension [5] (for a detailed discussion, see Aminorex in Chapter 3.12.3). Phentermine (1) proved to be a substrate of the dopamine transporter (DAT) and only a weak substrate of SERT as well as a reuptake inhibitor of serotonin (for the mechanism of action and a discussion of the appetite inhibitors, see excursus anorectics).
    In addition to the in vitro release of dopamine, phentermine (1) also released norepinephrine [6]. There are indications from in vivo experiments which suggest that phentermine releases only insignificant dopamine in humans at typical clinical doses [7]. In high doses, Phentermine (1) is also used as a stimulant (doping, psychostimulant), whereby the monoamine release may come into play. The stimulating properties of phentermine (1) were
