Fig. 1. Spatial arrangement of the significantly angled AMDA (1, exo conformation, left) and the planar 9-aminomethylanthracene (8, right). Optimized with the force field method in the Moloc program [5-7].



AMDA (1) exhibits a significantly folded tricyclic system with free rotation around the aminomethyl bond (Fig. 1). The rigidized structures 9-17 have different folding angles (~ 111-174 °) as well as differently restricted rotational freedoms of the aminomethyl unit [1].
No quantitative relationship (linear or parabolic) has been found between the affinity and any geometric parameter, and so it is not known whether AMDA () has the optimal fold angle; only a remarkable sensitivity to small structural changes could be determined. The interpretation of the results was made more difficult by the additional steric stress on rigid systems (see also the introduction in Chapter 3.13 on this problem).

When looking at the chemical structure, it is noticeable that AMDA (1) shows a general similarity to different drugs or drug classes. On the one hand, there are tricyclic antidepressants such as imipramine (18), which act as inhibitors on monoamine transporters, but are also antagonists on the histamine H1 receptor (see also antidepressants section). AMDA (1) then shows certain similarities to the antihistamine diphenhydramine (20, see also Fig. 2) in terms of pharmacophores, similar to the more rigid cyproheptadine (19), which is also an antihistamine, but which also binds to serotonin receptors as an antagonist. On the other hand, there are the classic antipsychotics of the phenothiazine type (e.g. chlorpromazine, 21, see also Fig. 3).
In particular, many of the early developments of antihistamines and tricyclic antidepressants have a more or less pronounced simultaneous effect, they inhibit the reuptake of monoamines and are, among other things, antagonists of the 5-HT2 receptor and of histamine receptors. The “selectivity” in favor of the antiallergic effect could be achieved by the trick of making the molecules more polar. As a result, these substances were largely deprived of their ability to cross the blood-brain barrier. But the feature of the two aryl parts as well as an aminoalkyl group has been largely retained in antihistamines to this day, and thus the relationship with the tricyclic antidepressants remains attractive (see also an excursus on antidepressants).
