Pheomelanins (39). They are deadly in color and are more common in red-haired individuals. These rather small polymers are less efficient at blocking UV rays than eumelanins (40). That explains why redheads tend to be quicker
Get sunburn as a dark-skinned person. In the latter, so-called eumelanins (40) are increasingly formed via dopachrome (34) and subsequent polymerization of the indole derivatives (39 and 40) [10-14].

Tyrosine (12a) can still be doubly hydroxylated in the body by means of copper-containing enzymes. This results in 2,4,5-trihydroxyphenylalanine, or L-TOPA (43), not to be confused with L-DOPA (30).
Thus there are even representatives of the 2,4,5-substituted phenethylamines in our body, from which the most potent psychedelics are structurally derived. It can be further oxidized to a quinone, 2,4,5-trihydroxyphenylalanine-quinone or TPQ (L-TOPA-quinone, 44), which is indispensable as a cofactor for copper-containing amine oxidases in our body (see excursus amine oxidases).

Epinephrine (see Section 7.5.3) and norepinephrine (see Section 7.5.2).
Epinephrine (32) is also known as adrenaline. The double and synonymous naming comes on the one hand from Latin (adrenalin; ad "bei" and renes "kidney" ‘), and on the other hand from Greek (epinephrine; eri = ei" bei "and vepoös = nephros" kidney "‘). Epinephrine (32) and norepinephrine (31) are both synthesized in the adrenal gland and released into the bloodstream as a hormone, but are also synthesized in the cytosol of adrenergic neurons and packed as neurotransmitters in vesicles. They interact with adrenergic receptors, have a vasoconstricting effect and increase blood pressure, increase the sympathetic tone and control the fight-or-flight
Behavior. Because of their ortbo-dihydroxy structure, like dopamine (29), they are sensitive to oxidation. The very polar properties are responsible for the fact that the catecholamines are not available orally. On the one hand, they are quickly metabolized and, on the other hand, they cannot cross the blood-brain barrier. Oxidation often produces indole-like heterocyclic compounds, similar to what is shown in the melanin pathways.
Epinephrine (32) is also involved in sweat production, the pilomotor reflex (goose bumps) and mydriasis (dilation of the pupil). It increases the heart rate and blood pressure, dilates the bronchi, releases energy from fat and regulates the provision of muscle strength. Properties which are also used in emergency medicine for resuscitation of the heart and lungs in cardiac arrest. Its role in the CNS is not as well understood as that of norepinephrine (31), which plays an important role in the sleep-wake rhythm and ingestion of food and is attributed to the general condition.

Adrenochrome (45), the in vivo oxidation product of epinephrine (32), is believed to be responsible for schizophrenia and, according to the controversial and outdated “adrenochrome hypothesis”
