Socially critical considerations on the future of antidepressants


The history of antidepressants is not only one of chemists, psychopharmacologists and the pharmaceutical industry, but also shows the great social interest in such active ingredients. Countless publications and articles about substances that (should) have a positive effect on our mental well-being have contributed significantly to its success and dissemination. The rise of the "in-drug" Prozac in the 1990s should be viewed and understood in this context. How else can it be explained that depression, considered a marginal phenomenon a hundred years ago, advanced to a mass phenomenon almost at the same time as the discovery of antidepressants? The strict warning about the risk of suicide and the latest reports of doubtful efficacy compared to placebo may seem to overshoot the mark, but can perhaps be interpreted as an attempt to counteract this off-label (ab) use as a lucky pill. As with other drugs, the benefits and risks must be weighed against each other and they tend to be prescribed only to "real" depressives. This “hype” caused by the media and the resulting momentum promote the sale of drugs with the melodious names.
The modifications and structural modifications led to ever newer psychotropic drugs with an improved antidepressant profile of action. Compounds with fewer side effects result, and the treating physicians and psychiatrists have a number of more or less selective tools at their disposal which influence the monoamine transporter systems differently. Thus, those affected could be adjusted individually with medication. This is undoubtedly an achievement that cannot be denied. However, the evolution of antidepressants is not over, as patients, psychiatrists and pharmacologists still have a few wishes left unanswered. A quick onset of effects, new, complementary mechanisms of action, which we can hopefully influence with new tools. Ideally, an active ingredient without additional effects that is also affordable. In the age of well-informed patients, globally networked consumer protection organizations and generally rising health costs, the pharmaceutical industry is faced with the challenge of looking for creative solutions to deliver ideal active ingredients for patients. There are many other starting points that can be read in detail at Millan [47]. For example, neurokinin antagonists, GABA modulators, histamine H3 and NMDA antagonists, PDE4, Sigma receptors, 5-HT3 antagonists, 5-HT4 or 5-HT6 receptor agonists are discussed as potential starting points. There is also a trend away from selective reuptake inhibitors such as fluoxetine (30) and favoring so-called multi-target antidepressants, which inhibit several monoamine transporters at the same time, but do not belong to the "old-fashioned class of tricyclics". All in one Review article [47] even reported on the neuromodulating effects of alternative treatment methods such as sleep deprivation and electroconvulsive therapy, the efficiency of which should not be underestimated.
