A remarkable property of cyanomethylene amines is their enormously reduced basicity compared to alkylated amines. The pKa value calculated for N, N-dimethylamphetamine (1) with Chemaxon-Marvin is 9.54. This means that under physiological conditions (pH 7.4) 9.27% are protonated. A pKa of 5.66 is calculated for CMMA (15), which shows the opposite relationship in the physiological environment: at pH 7.4, only 118% are protonated, and the rest as Basc. Such considerations are always important when a substance to act on a GPCR of the amine cluster (e.g. dopamine, serotonin, histamine, opioid, adrenergic receptors, etc.), since in most cases the drug in the binding pocket must be protonated in order to react with a negatively charged aspartate anion to be able to enter into decisive interaction.

(+) - S-Benzphetamine (17) is sold as a drug under the name Didrex® and is used as an appetite suppressant. It has been shown that, like many other N-alkylated amphetamines, it is dealkylated in the body (summarized in [12]). Benzphetamine (17) itself probably has few addictive properties, it is N-debenzylated and also N-demethylated relatively slowly, and thus there is a kind of slow "continuous release" of methamphetamine and amphetamine. Due to the lower concentration of the actual active ingredients, there is normally no pronounced stimulation. The resulting metabolites (e.g. amphetamine and methamphetamine) have the same stereochemistry as the substance ingested. This means that the metabolism of enantiomerically pure drugs such as benzphetamine (17) or selegiline (16) does not lead to racemization. The problem that arises is the evidence of abuse of. Stimulants such as amphetamine or methamphetamine, among other things, in sport as doping, If (+) - S-amphetamine or (+) - S-methamphetamine is detected in a urine sample, it may not be possible to clearly prove whether one of these compounds was actually taken or whether only the legal drug (+) - S-benzphetamine (17) led to this positive evidence. (+) - S-methamphetamine is sometimes also offered enantiomerically pure on the black market, as it is often produced from the enantiomerically pure natural product (-) - ephedtrin.



In contrast to this, selegiline (16) - a selective, irreversible inhibitor of monoamine oxidase B - is marketed as a (-) - R enantiomer under names such as Deprenyl® and Movergan®. This means that only (-) - R-amphetamine and (-) - R-methamphetamine are produced as metabolites. An abuse of the last two enantiomers is not known and would also make no sense, since their potency is about five times weaker than that of their optical antipodes (+) - S-amphetamine or (+) - S-methamphetamine. If only the (-) - R- without the (-) - S-enantiomer of an active substance is detected, the ingestion was most likely a drug such as selegiline (16). However, it has also been shown that with some drugs one enantiomer is more selective
