delikum 2C-B (Chapter 8.5.9). By imitating what already existed, new things were created and optimized for the respective purposes.

When dealing with the subject of "phenylalkylamines" one inevitably comes across terms such as amphetamines, hallucinogens, stimulants - and rightly so. After all, it was the two substances amphetamine (a potent stimulant) and mescaline (a remarkable psychedelic) that were probably the most powerful engines for The man-made 'synthetic amphetamine' with its "negative" properties has led research to topics such as anti-obesity, ADHD, antidepressants, narcolepsy, asthma, blood pressure and addictive behavior
opened up. The naturally occurring mescaline - found in the peyote cactus, for example - had an impact on mankind and its religions thousands of years ago. After its isolation before 1900 by Arthur Heffter and the first synthesis by Ernst Späth in 1919, mankind had a tool in its purest form for the first time, which promoted research into the psyche and psychedelics. Areas of science for research into mental illnesses, neurological processes or altered states of consciousness were created or promoted. These lead structures ultimately served the medicinal chemists as the basis for developing hundreds of new, exciting active ingredients, some of which also financially spurred various pharmaceutical companies. Quite apart from that, these two substances acted as catalysts in socioculture, and their cultural-historical influences cannot be dismissed out of hand (Chapters 2 and 8.4.1).
However, one should by no means associate the phenylalkylamines only with the keywords mentioned. There is far more to report about this class: With the basic body phenethylamine, humans created exciting, bizarre, questionable and enriching tools, which in their entirety have made an important contribution to the understanding of pharmacological or psychological processes. Trying amphetamine
to be integrated into a kind of polymer (Chapter 3.3) in order to delay its effect; Phenethylamines in warfare to reduce radiation damage (Chapter 3.5); Radiotracer for imaging studies and for the visualization of binding regions of different derivatives (e.g. fluoxetine, excursus fluorine in medicinal chemistry); Radioligands for determining binding affinities (e.g. DOB and DOT, Chapter 8.5.10); Hunger suppressing phenylalkylamines (excursus anorectics); Mood-influencing substances (excursus antidepressants) or even the chelation of uranium ions (Chapter 9.2) by means of phenethylamine derivatives and potent psychedelics (e.g. DOB-DFLY, Chapter 8.5.27.2), which in their dosage in animals and humans almost appear Approach LSD - all these aspects contribute to the variety of fields of application of the phenylalkylamines. Mother nature is also not stingy with its phenylalkylamines and also brings out some bizarre treasures (excursus: natural substances with a phenethylamine basic structure).


Outlook

The field of neurology has made great strides. Nevertheless, the tools or molecules that were found and invented to investigate complex processes at a receptor, in a synapse or in a brain area are not sufficient to decipher the complexity of the cascade-like processes down to the deepest detail. Once a neurochemist reveals a chemical signal cascade, it is not yet possible to access the
