The diamine by-product 32 was formed in the synthesis of ephedrine (1a) [21]. Only weak sympathomimetic effects were found in pharmacological studies. A significant stimulation of the test animals was only observed at concentrations close to the lethal dose.

    Thioketones (also called thiones) are generally quite chemically unstable and have not yet been described in connection with phenethylamines (e.g. thiocathinones).



    The introduction of fluorine atoms into the side chain of the phenylalkylamines has also been investigated. There are a large number of pharmacologically active compounds that carry one or more fluorine atoms, and this sometimes significantly changes the properties (see excursus fluorine in medicinal chemistry).
In 1967, Pinder and Burger investigated the influence of three F atoms on the α-Me group in amphetamine and identified the compound 2-amino-3-phenyl-1,1,1-trifluoropropane (33) and its ß-hydroxy analogue 34 her [22]. These compounds showed neither anorectic, antiemetic, CNS, MAO-inhibitory nor pressor activity. Compound 34 can be viewed structurally as a norephedrine analog; however, it showed only 0.3% of the pressor activity in comparison. In the work that followed shortly afterwards, Pinder, Brimblecombe and Green argued with the electronic effects [23]. The strongly electron-withdrawing fluorine atoms lower the basicity of the amino group to such an extent that the molecule loses its ability to be protonated under physiological conditions. Amphetamine has a pKa value of 9.93, whereas the trifluorinated amine 33 has a pKa value of only 4.97.

    Fuller, Molloy and Shaw also showed through their investigations on the two compounds ß-fluoramphetamine (35) and β, β-difluoramphetamine (36) that the introduction of fluorine atoms can have a very significant influence [24, 25]. The pKa values of 35 (8.4) and 36 (7.0) were changed compared to amphetamine (95). This means that the first two amines at physiological pH are still mainly cations
