There is a risk that compounds containing monofluoroethyl groups and generally even-numbered monofluoroalkyl radicals can be metabolized to fluoroacetic acid (1) by β-oxidation. To what extent and in what amount of fluoroacetic acid (1) is formed has not been fully clarified. In the oxidative dealkylation of ω-fluoroalkanes, an alpha-constant aldehyde is initially formed, which is then oxidized to the corresponding ω-fluoro-fatty acid. In the context of ß-oxidation, fatty acids are successively shortened by two carbons from the carboxylic acid residue until either, in the case of alkyl chains with an even number of carbon atoms, fluoroacetic acid (0) or, in the case of odd-numbered carbon atoms, fluoropropionic acid remains. Toxicity studies with homologous ω-fluoroalkylene ethers or esters clearly show this [9, 10].


Fluorine in phenylalkylamines

The advances in fluorine chemistry also reflect the medicinal chemistry development in the framework of the phenylalkylamines. As an example, in the case of fenfluramine (25), the stimulating and hunger-suppressing effects of amphetamine could be separated by adding a CF3 group (see also Section 6.2.2). A change in the selectivity profile with regard to inhibition of the reuptake of serotonin (5-HT) and norepinephrine (NE) was achieved with the antidepressant fluoxetine (29, see also Chapter 3.10). In the case of the 4-aryl-substituted amphetamines, on the other hand, 4-fluoroamphetamine (30) stands out from its halogen siblings in that it shows its own spectrum of activity (see also Section 6.3.4).


Among the phenylalkylamines that act on the serotonin 5-HT2A receptor, which are psychedelic compounds, there are now a number of fluorinated derivatives (see also the detailed review article by Trachsel [18]). Alexander Shulgin, who with 2C-T-21 (31) produced and discovered the first fluorinated phenylalkylamine with psychedelic effects, laid the foundation stone for the realization of many new active fluorinated compounds (see chapter 8.5.7) [11]. 2C-T-21 (31) is structurally the same as 2C-T-2 (32) which is active in humans and is no less active, but due to this structurally small change it has its own effects that can be clearly distinguished from 32. It is also not inconceivable that the metabolism is different and that active metabolites have a different selectivity profile and thus a different effect. For example, 2C-T-2 is hydroxylated at the end of the ethyl group in the body and the thioether is oxidized to sulfoxide [12].
