and other psychoactive substances (e.g. cocaine and methamphetamine) related to the subjective profile of action [22, 26, 27]. DA (7) is held responsible for the euphoric effect, NE (8) for the centrally stimulating, drive-increasing effect [22]. At high doses, serotonergic (5-HT) neurotransmission can also play a role [27]. In addition, Del Arco et al. showed in their studies on rats that the intracerebral administration of amphetamine (1) along with DA (7) and NE (8) increases the extracellular concentrations of glutamate, aspartate, GABA, and taurine [28]. Two mechanisms are responsible for the increased concentrations of the catecholamines: On the one hand, the respective monoamine transporters (see excursus monoamine transporters) are "reversed" so that they transport from the presynapse into the synaptic cleft instead of from the synaptic gap into the interior of the cell (reverse transport). On the other hand, resumption is inhibited by these transporters.


Norepinephrine - a Decisive Factor? Noradrenergic Hypothesis

It was recognized early on that amphetamine (1), in addition to DA (7), also promotes the release of NE [29]. However, almost all researchers carried out their investigations around the dopaminergic neurotransmission, so that the noradrenergic neurotransmission was not taken into account for a long time. The 2001 by Rothman et al. [25] postulated "noradrenergic hypothesis" ascribes the positive perception of psychostimulating substances primarily to NE (8). It is not doubted that DA (7) is the mediator for maintaining self-administration of substances in animal models, but rather the question of what kind of pharmacological profile must psychoactive substances have in order to cause the subjectively perceived highs. In their study, Rothman et al. Show that stimulants that show amphetamine-like character mainly release NE (Table 2). When analyzing the available data, it was also found that the oral dose required for humans (to produce amphetamine-like subjective effects) correlates better with the potency of the NE release than with that of DA (7) [25]. However, it should be added that the data set for this statement was limited to n = 5 (amphetamine, methamphetamine, phentermine, ephedrine and MDMA). The authors write: “(..) Although it is tempting to speculate that stimulant-induced positive subjective effects in humans are mediated by a single neurotransmitter, the more likely scenario is that multiple neurochemicals and brain regions contribute to the subjective experience described as the 'High' “a) [25].

According to more recent studies, the trace amine receptor TAARI is becoming increasingly important in explaining the generation of addiction and tolerance by amphetamine (1) and methamphetamine (9) [30, 31]. If the TAARI is stimulated by methamphetamine (9), this leads to an increased release of dopamine on the DA transporter, but also to increased phosphorylation, which results in its internalization. This means that the transporters are absorbed into the cell interior and are therefore no longer functionally available (see excursus on aspects of molecular pharmacology). The consequence is that over time more and more stimulus is required to produce comparable effects [32].




a) “(...) even if it would be tempting to blame a single neurotransmitter for the positive subjective effects, the likely scenario is that multiple neurochemicals and brain regions are involved in the experience of the 'high'
