3.3. N-heterosubstituted phenylalkylamines

The introduction of an atom or group of atoms other than hydrogen or carbon - such as nitrogen, oxygen or functional groups such as carbamates and sulfonamides on the basic nitrogen of phenylalkylamines - results in a drastic change in the physicochemical properties. Amines can be protonated. Thus, depending on the pH value in the body, they can either migrate as a basic, nonionic compound into lipophilic media, or they can be transported in ionized form (salt) in hydrophilic media. If one of the above changes is made in the chemical structure, the amine may lose its basicity and thus its ambivalent ability. This can have very drastic effects on the spectrum of activity of a substance.

In contrast to many other N-heterosubstituted compounds, hydrazines can nevertheless be protonated by acids, either once or twice. The first studies on the physiological activity of a simple phenylalkylhydrazine derivative were made by Benoit and Bovet in 1942 [1]. For example, β-phenethylhydrazine (later known as phenelzine, Nardil®, 1) in test animals (i.v.) exhibited a pressor activity comparable to that of phenethylamine (see Chapter 1). In 1952, Zeiler et al. Discovered that simple hydrazine derivatives such as methyl and ethyl hydrazine are potent inhibitors of the enzyme monoamine oxidase (MAO) [2, 3]. But these hydrazines are toxic and carcinogenic, which completely ruled out medical use.
In the hope of being able to separate the MAO-inhibitory properties of the hydrazines from the toxic effects, Biel et al. 1959 a study on a variety of arylalkylhydrazines [4]. It was hoped that the introduction of a hydrazine group would also produce substances with preferred effects, as they were already known from simple arylalkylamines, and the aim was to achieve a deeper side effect profile. Some of the Biel et al. The hydrazine derivatives 1-7 presented were finally found to be very effective MAO inhibitors in experiments (see also the excursus on antidepressants) [4].
The N-aminoamphetamine (2; pheniprazine, JB-516, Catron®, Cavodil®, PIH) was named as the most potent compound, and 2 was the only one to also show potent analeptic activity. From the many studies it emerged that the hydrazines in comparison to the corresponding amines generally have a stronger MAO inhibition, an increased metabolic stability and thus a longer duration of action and produce a reduction in blood pressure instead of an increase. The vasodilator effects of pheniprazine (2) have been viewed at least in part as a result of the stimulation of adrenergic receptors [5]. The hydrazines also tended to increase appetite, which is in contrast to the amine compounds (amphetamine is considered to be a powerful appetite suppressant, see Chapter 2) [4].
