a methyl group: amphetamine. For which people this small structural variation is useful? Chapter 2 asks about the history of amphetamine. Its effects, social abuse and its tough survival on the pharmaceutical market - for almost a hundred years in constantly changing indications - are historically rolled out.

The possible changes to the side chain of phenethylamine and amphetamine are presented in Chapter 3. A detailed overview of these aryl-unsubstituted phenylalkylamines follows in the introduction to Chapter 3. It shows step by step the variations that are possible at these positions. Minor changes, such as the addition of an N-methyl group to metamphetamine, one of the first chemical appetite suppressants, as well as more complex structures such as methyl 2-phenyl-2- (2-piperidyl) acetic acid, better known as Ritalin®, are there along with many other ( around 500) molecules are treated.
Fluorine is omnipresent in medicinal chemistry - and may be underestimated, which is why an excursus is dedicated to this helper. Because fluorine also shows changes in the phenethylamine framework, offers possibilities and opens up opportunities that no other element can achieve, not even the related halogens.
The excursus on antidepressants sums up the history of the medicinal chemical development of drugs against depression: The structural iterations that led to ever better drugs are discussed in chronological order, from the effects of the first mood-enhancers to the mechanisms of modern antidepressants and the current debate about their off-label use. The mode of action of monoamine oxidase and (MAO) inhibitors as well as other amine oxidases is explained in the excursus on amine oxidases

Chapter 4 describes heteroarylalkylamines: More than 100 compounds in which the phenyl ring has been replaced by a heteroarylalkyl ester without substituents - i.e. aromatics that do not exclusively contain carbon and hydrogen - are described. The twelve sub-chapters pave the way for the subsequent excursus on bioisosterism. This describes the concept common in medicinal chemistry of replacing atoms or functional groups with atoms and groups of molecules leading to a similar effect in order to obtain an optimized effect profile.

What happens when the phenyl ring is broken up into aliphatic systems or omitted entirely, can be found in Chapter 5, Replacement of the aryl part (around 30 substances).

There are three ways of placing a single (Greek monos, “alone, only”) substituent on the phenyl ring. Accordingly, Chapter 6, Aryl-Monosubstituted Phenylalkylamines, is divided into three sub-chapters: 2-, 3- and 4-Substituted Phenylalkylamines. From this group (more than 300 substances) a number of drugs have emerged, including the anorectic fenfluramine.
A wide variety of appetite-suppressing molecules are portrayed with a social and historical focus. A subsequent excursus on anorectics demonstrates how history has repeated itself over the past few decades: celebrated market approval, occurrence of serious health problems and finally the ban on substances. Still, some of these slimming products still lead a shadowy existence.
