Substances 15 and 16 were also examined [23]. They should be used as active ingredients in analogy to ephedrine (see chapter 3.5). The authors described these substances as active bronchodilators and pointed to an increased toxicity with increasing size of the N-substituent. These modifications seemed to have little influence on the desired effect, the enlargement of the lungs. All the derivatives investigated had only a marginal influence on the blood pressure of dogs.

N-substituted 2-aminoindanes of types 17 and 18 have been investigated for various pharmacological properties, for example as potential analgesics and anti-inflammatory agents [22]. It was observed that some of the tested type 17 compounds slightly decreased arterial blood pressure in anesthetized dogs. The Type 17 compounds tested were inactive as anti-inflammatory agents. Other molecules of this type (17 and 18) were wanted to know whether they had neuropharmacological activity. The corresponding pyrrolidino derivative in mice was found to have a remarkable amphetamine-like effect, from as little as 3 mg / kg. How the authors investigated this was not mentioned. The structural comparison with the derivatives of the prolintan type (see Section 3.2.1) and the pyrovalerone type (see α-pyrrolidinopentiophenone or α-PVP in Chapter 3.5), in which monoamine reuptake is inhibited, is interesting. It cannot be ruled out that structures 17-18 show similar pharmacological properties.



The next higher benzene-fused alicyclic amines are the aminotetralins. Here, too, two positions of the amino group are possible and both compounds are chiral. 1-aminotetralin (1-AT; 19) was tested (in vitro) as inhibitors of PNMT together with other benzene-fused alicyclic amines (1, 3 and 34) and proved to be weaker than the smaller 1-AI (3) [7].

In a locomotion study, 2-aminotetralin (2-AT; 20) showed only 10% of the activity of amphetamine (mice, ip) [1], but the stimulating effect in mice up to 8 mg / kg could not be confirmed later ([24] ; summarized in [26]). Among the benzene-fused compounds 14, 20, 35 and 36, 2-AT (20) was the most potent for amphetamine in a drug discrimination study in rats; it was found to be almost half as active as amphetamine [2].
The effect of compounds 20-24 on blood pressure was investigated in cats and rats [27]. For 2-AT (20), an increase in blood pressure was found for both animals examined. By introducing substituents with increasing size on the nitrogen, this effect decreased continuously up to compound 24. Further investigations into the ability to block epinephrine and the effects on breathing lead the author of this study to conclude that the influence on blood pressure comes about through the secretion of u.
