Introduction to the structure-activity relationships of
Phenylalkylamines


Fig. 1 shows, very roughly outlined, the trends that can be derived from the structural modifications to substances without substituents on the phenyl ring. Of course there are always exceptions, for the sake of simplicity and clarity, only the most important findings are discussed. Remember that Fig. 1 is based on a data volume of around 500 connections and therefore only individual representatives can be presented. More precise details can be found in the introductions to the main chapters and in a summary at the end of the chapters (also applies to Fig. 2).

2-Phenethylamine (1; Chapter 1) is in itself a relatively unspectacular compound. Oral administration remains almost ineffective; 2-phenethylamine only increases blood pressure when the digestive tract is bypassed. The simple introduction of an α-methyl group changes the spectrum of action massively; the amphetamine resulting therefrom (2; Chapter 2) is metabolically more stable and produces a significant when administered orally
Stimulation on a physical as well as psychological level; appetite is decreased and blood pressure rises. The dopaminergic and noradrenergic neurotransmission is stimulated.
N-methylation of the amphetamine provides the slightly more potent methamphetamine (3; Chapter 3.1), N, N-dialkylation leads to a loss of effectiveness of the stimulating effects (substance 4; Chapter 3.2). The stimulating and hunger-suppressing effects are lost due to electron-withdrawing N-substituents (substance 5; Chapter 3.3). If heteroatoms are incorporated into the side chain, the spectrum of activity changes significantly (e.g. substance 6; Chapter 3.4). And if, for example, β-hydroxylation is carried out, sympathomimetically active substances with a certain physical and psychological stimulation can be obtained (e.g. ephedrine, 7; Chapter 3.5). If the side chain is homologated in the α position, the stimulating properties are lost (substance 8; Chapter 3.6). Attaching two Me groups in the α position lowers the stimulating properties and maintains an anti-hunger effect (Phentermine, 9; Chapter 3.7). The influence of alkyl groups in the β position has been examined rather sparsely, the stimulating effects decrease (substances 10 and 11; Chapters 3.8 and 3.9, respectively).
Varying the position of the amino group showed that a Ph-C-C-N unit is optimally present for stimulatory effects and a blood pressure-increasing effect (structure 12; Chapter 3.10). The cyclization of the side chain brings a multitude of new active substances with pharmacological diversity, e.g. MAO inhibitors (Tranyleypromin, 13; Chapter 3.11). The incorporation of nitrogen into a cycle brings an enormous variety of active ingredients with different pharmacological profiles, including stimulants (e.g. 1-Benzylpiperazine, 14; Chapter 3.12). The double attachment of the side chain to the phenyl ring gives the benzene-fused derivatives; they lose their properties as
Stimulants largely (2-Aminoindan, 15; 3-Methyl-TIQ, 16; AMDA, 17; Chapter 3.13, respectively 3.14 and 3.15); the second aromatic in AMDA (17) gives potent ligands of the serotonin 5-HT2A / C receptors.
