The 2-benzylaziridine (8) can be viewed as a cyclized amphetamine analog with the nitrogen attached to the terminal methyl group. In contrast to amphetamine (see Chapter 2), however, it showed no increase in motor activity in mice; after administration of 5 mg / kg it was even slightly decreased [3]. The rectal temperature of rabbits was not affected by 2-benzylaziridine (8) [3]. On the one hand, the ability of the molecule to be easily hydrolyzed was discussed, with incubation (five hours at 37 ° C in an aqueous buffer at pH 7.3) causing no change in the chemical structure. On the other hand, the authors discuss the significantly lower pKa value: Amphetamine has a pKa value of 9.9, and compound 8 with a pKa value of 7.2 may not be fully protonated in the physiological medium as required. Aziridines are subject to enormous ring tension and are therefore, like epoxides, very easily attacked by nucleophiles. Since all DNA bases have nucleophilic properties, they are alkylated by aziridines and thus chemically changed. Aziridines are classified as carcinogenic.

3.12.2. Azetidines

Compounds 9 and 10a-b (racemates; only one isomer shown) have a four-membered ring and have been investigated as azetidine analogues of ephedrine for their inhibition of [H3] -norepinephrine uptake [4]. As in the case of ephedrine, the spatial arrangement of the methyl group relative to the phenyl ring or the hydroxyl group was decisive for the inhibition.



3.12.3. Five-membered azacycles

In 1959, the Boehringer company patented the substance 2-amino-5-phenyloxazolin-4-one (11), which was later given the name pemoline (sometimes also called phenoxazole, phenylisohydantoin and phenylpseudohydantoin) [5]. Since amphetamine has a broad spectrum of activity (for sure, Chapter 2) and some effects were also desirable (e.g. the anorectic or psychostimulating properties), however, the many side effects predominated (e.g. strong dependency potential, tolerance formation, strong increase in blood pressure, insomnia etc.) was a substance desirable that is free from the unpleasant side effects. According to the patent holder, pemoline (11) showed an increase in efficiency and functional capacity in initial psychopharmacological studies, without any euphoric effects. Test animals (rats, rabbits, cats and dogs) also showed a remarkable increase in physical activity after oral and parenteral administration of a dose of 5 mg / kg pemoline (11)
