Prodin derivatives such as the synthetic opioid MPPP (81) have appeared on the black market and made headlines as there were more cases of Parkinson's disease among users. The cause of the disease lies in chemical contamination: If MPPP (81) is improperly synthesized, propionic acid is eliminated, producing MPTP (82). This can cross the blood-brain barrier and is oxidized in the brain to MPP + (83) (Fig. 6). MPP + (83) accumulates in the brain because, as a charged species, it can no longer cross the blood-brain barrier in the opposite direction. It has a high affinity for the dopamine transporter (DAT), is channeled into dopaminergic neurons and brings the energy supply to a standstill in the mitochondria. As a result, dopaminergic neurons perish and symptoms such as Parkinson's disease develop [108, 109].



Fig. 6. Improper synthesis of MPPP (81) results in MPTP (82). When consumed, the endogenous enzyme monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) produces the neurotoxin MPP + (83), which triggers Parkinson's disease (83) [108, 108].


3.12.4.2. Piperazine

1-Phenylpiperazine (72; 1-PP) was used in a structure-activity study by Glennon et al. investigated together with other analogues [110]. In a drug discrimination study on rats (training drug: (+) - amphetamine; 1.0mg / kg) it was not able to generalize at any of the tested dosages (0.5-2.0mg / kg). The inactivity could not be explained by the fact that 1-phenylpiperazine (72) has a secondary nitrogen compared to amphetamine, because methamphetamine also has this and is highly potent. Interestingly, the distance between the secondary nitrogen and the aromatic in 72 approximately corresponds to that in amphetamine. As possible explanations, the authors mentioned electronic effects of the piperazine ring on the aromatic, an unfavorable alignment of the phenyl ring to the piperazine ring due to π-overlapping of the electron pair from the tertiary nitrogen with the aromatic or other steric and / or or electronically unfavorable factors.
1-Phenylpiperazine (72) also served as the lead structure in the search for ligands of the serotonin 5-HT1A receptor [44]. 1-Phenylpiperazine (72) showed a binding constant of Ki = 380nM ([3H] OH-DPAT exchange) for this receptor and a somewhat lower affinity at the 5-HT1B receptor (Ki = 820nM). Various substituents on the aromatic and also on the second nitrogen led to very potent ligands with a comparable affinity to serotonin (5-HT1A Ki = 2nM), 1-phenylpiperazine (72) showed a weak one
