from major depression, anxiety, and schizophrenia not an improvement, but an aggravation of the patient's condition. Even Myerson did not see any improvement in his study of severely psychotic patients. However, in December 1937, SKF received approval for narcolepsy, post-cephalitic Parkinson's disease, mood enhancement for depression and other psychiatric indications. The advertisement for amphetamines was allowed to appear in medical journals from now on. This approval appeared to be a compromise between American Medical Association (AMA) precautions and SKF's goal of using Benzedrine® as a general remedy for fatigue and depression. Although the AMA wanted to prevent Benzedrine® from slipping out of psychiatric control and being used by “normal” people as a “pick-me-up” pill, an underground use of Benzedrine® nonetheless developed shortly thereafter. The stimulating effect had obviously got around; Time Magazine again published an article in May 1937 with the title "Pep-Pil] Poisoning" [11]. The article reports on college students who overdosed on the drug. "No more of two of these pills should be taken in a 24-hour period". Because little was known about the cumulative effects and the dose strongly depended on the individual, the warning was issued not to take Benzedrine® without the advice of a doctor.

In 1938, too, there were only limited scientifically differentiated voices. Bahnsen, Jacobsen and Thesieff published an extensive study on amphetamine, which they called "mecodrin" [12]. You note that in the literature "& a side effects on a 'larger scale" have been made public, but there is talk of decreased appetite, palpitations, hand tremors and insomnia. They point to the purely medical use, which, by the way, is not fully defined. Furthermore, they investigate the extent to which chronic consumption leads to anaphylactic states, habituation, symptoms of abstinence, “amphetamines” or “mecodrinism”. During the one to two years that they administered amphetamine (1) for study purposes, “nothing was found that contraindicated periodic short-term use”, and they particularly emphasize that “the occasional euphoria did not change the urge to continue taking it evoked ... ". They compared a control group with a mecodring group (20 mg amphetamine (1) for the men, 10 mg for the women), each consisting of around a hundred people. Table 1 shows a selection from the questionnaire [12].



Table 1. Effects of amphetamine (1) according to a study from 1938 [12].
