It didn't make sense that Morell prescribed so much methamphetamine (2) for him, which led Hitler to increasingly show symptoms of Parkinson's disease [15].
During the same period in 1941, methamphetamine (2) was freely available in Japan (and also in Great Britain, as a methedtine inhaler pen, Fig. 2) and was offered as Philopon® and Sedrin® to combat fatigue and promote vitality [14] . After the war, methamphetamine (2) from the surplus military reserves flooded the market and led to the first widespread abuse, the so-called "first epidemic" (1945-1957) [16]. A full 5% of 16-25 year old Japanese adolescents abused methamphetamine in 1948 (2). In 1954, over half a million people in Japan used methamphetamine (2), 10% of whom showed symptoms of methamphetamine-induced psychosis. The laws were tightened as a result, but a second epidemic developed (from 1970 to the present day). Above all workers, students, but also housewives used this means to cope with the increasing demands in everyday life [16].

In the post-war period, methamphetamine (2) was marketed under various names, primarily for combating obesity and depression (Figs. 2 and 3, printed in the journal JAMA and Am. J. Psychiatry, at the beginning of the 1950s). At this point, reference is made to the digression on antidepressants and anorectics.
The three to four times less CNS active (-) - R-methamphetamine (2b) was sold under the name l-deoxyephedrine in Vicks Inhaler®. If this was used as directed, the effects were insufficient to achieve CNS stimulation. The potential for abuse was small; the effort of opening the inhaler and extracting 50mg of the weaker (-) - R-methamphetamine (2b), (also known as peannt butter methamphetamine) was worthwhile considering the availability of illegal (+) - S-methamphetamine (2a ) obviously not. If one were to test positive for (+) - S-methamphetamine (2a), one could not excuse oneself with the use of Vicks Inhaler®, since the human organism does not have a chiral isomerization single enzyme [1].
After methamphetamine (2) was largely withdrawn from the market as Desoxyn® and Methedrin®, illegal laboratories distributed methamphetamine (2), which used the precursor 1-phenyl-2-propanone (P-2-P) and a racemic mixture of methamphetamine (2) produced. It was circulated under the name Crank, among other things. Laws were tightened, chemical precursors better controlled, and the organized gangs selling crystal meth were persecuted. Nevertheless, it seems that time and again it was possible to set up new production facilities in other places and to expand the typical consumer group from workers and truck drivers to students and young professionals. Methamphetamine consumption was not only popular on the American west coast; in the 1980s, high-purity (+) - S-methamphetamine (2a) hydrochloride imported from the Far East appeared and was smoked and sold as ice [16].

The therapeutic use today - approved by the FDA under the name Desoxyn® - includes the treatment of attention deficit / hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and short-term use as an anorectic [17]. It is also used “off-label” against narcolepsy and therapy-resistant depression.
