39 had a muscarinic and nicotine-like effect and was found to be a substance with muscle relaxant properties [29]. This prompted Graham and James to investigate substances 39 and 40, as well as an extensive series of analogues [30, 31]. Some compounds showed an antagonizing effect on epinephrine, norepinephrine, histamine and serotonin. In this regard, the derivative (41) was ineffective, but the authors mentioned a strong local anesthetic effect.



The fact that the introduction of electron-withdrawing groups in the side chain has a significant influence on the activity of phenylalkylamines has also been confirmed with the compound 1-cyanophenethylamine (42) [32]. The mice treated with 42 showed no changes in locomotion up to 200 μM / kg (for comparison: amphetamine shows a very strong increase in locomotion even at doses of 10 μM / kg). In contrast to 1-ethynylphenethylamine (43, see also Chapter 3.6), which acts as a MAO inhibitor, 42 also did not reveal any potentiation of the activity of 2-phenethylamine (stimulation of locomotor activity). Furthermore, 42 showed a very small influence on the blood pressure of cats. The calculated pKa values show that 42 has lost its basicity (5.2) and can therefore no longer interact with a target in protonated form. Compared with amphetamine (9.5), compound 43 has also lost its basicity, but with a pKa value of 7.6 it is still about 50% in protonated form in the body.


The early studies of the metabolites of psychotomimetic phenylalkylamines led to the assumption that active metabolites could be responsible for the effects of such substances. After administration of mescaline (44), rabbits excreted the metabolite 45 in significant amounts (humans, however, only in traces, see Section 8.4.1.2). When 45 rabbits were injected, a “mescaline-like” effect developed from the outside (summarized in [33]). The idea arose that with other phenylalkylamines, these metabolites may also have an effect and are even the active metabolites. For this reason, compounds 46 and 47, among others, were prepared and investigated as amphetamine analogues [33]. When administered to mice, these compounds were found to have only ataxia and depressant effects; Hyperactivity was not observed. By that later
