    In locomotion studies with mice, Van der Schoot et al. 1962 various amines [2]. Among them were also analogues of the parent substance amphetamine, which ask the amino group at different distances from the phenyl ring. Compounds 2-5 and 6-7 were all inactive in this experiment (i.p. administration).

    To obtain information about the stereochemistry of norepinephrine-N-methyltransferase (NMT) inhibitors, Rafferty et al. among others the compounds 3, 3a and 3b [3]. The S-stereoisomers of the compounds examined showed a tendency to be more active. In the specific case, this means that the S-enantiomer 3a inhibited NMT in vivo about ten times as strongly as the enantiomer R-3b.
    Type 8 substances were investigated by researchers from EA Lilly as MAO inhibitors [4].



    One of the better-known compounds that does not have a 2C unit between the amino group and the benzene ring like most phenylalkylamines is fluoxetine (9), better known under the name “Prozac” or “Fluctin®”. This substance was first mentioned publicly in 1974 under the name Lilly 110140 (abstract; [5]). It was 13 years before the American FDA gave the go-ahead for launch in 1987. The racemic active ingredient fluoxetine is still sold today as an inhibitor of the serotonin transporter (SERT) for the treatment of depression. For more information on the mechanism of action, see the excursus on monoamine transporters and antidepressants.
    Prozac, the once-a-day drug, has become the most widely used drug for depression worldwide. Further indications were investigated and approval for obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and bulimia was granted. It is remarkable how this substance not only aroused media interest, but also that of scientific research. By 1995, over 5500 scientific articles had been written. The Pubmed database delivered in March 2012, around 10,000 hits (keyword fluoxetine) [6]:
    The chemists at Lilly discovered that the trifluoromethyl group on the phenoxy ring of fluoxetine (9) improves the inhibition of the reuptake of serotonin (5-HT) by a factor of 6 compared to its aryl-unsubstituted analogue and therefore improves the ability to Inhibiting NE reuptake worsened by a factor of 200 [7]. Fluoxetine (9) was therefore compared to the unsubstituted. Connection by more than factor
