3.12.4. Six-membered azacycles

3.12.4.1. Piperidines

1-Phenylpiperidine (36) was reported by Glenmon et al. investigated ligands for the serotonin 5-HT1A receptor in a structure-activity study. 36 showed only moderate affinity for this receptor (Ki = 1520nM) [44].
To explore the role of the cycloalkyl ring in phencyclidine (39), MeOuinn et al. produced a number of substances of type 37 (n = 0; 2-7) [45]. 1-Benzylpiperidine (38; n = 0 in 37) showed almost no measurable biological activity in vitro (PCP binding assay, rat brain) and in vivo (discriminative stimulus test, rats).

Phencyclidine (39; phenyloyclohexylpiperidine, PCP for short) was introduced in the 1960s under the name Sernyl® as a non-narcotic anesthetic for human medicine. The occurrence of hallucinations while awakening from anesthesia led to its withdrawal from the pharmaceutical market [46]. It was ultimately its psychotropic effects that gave phencyclidine its popularity. It is still sold on the illegal narcotics market today under names such as PCP or “Angel Dust”. Other derivatives in which the piperidine has been replaced by other cyclic and alicyclic amines, such as eticyclidine (40) and rolicycline (41), are abused. The bioisosteric exchange of the phenyl ring by a 2-thienyl residue leads to even more potent compounds, such as tenocyclidine (42). Tiletamine (43), which can be seen as a thiophene analog of ketamine (45), is used in veterinary medicine for stunning large game. These dissociative compounds are open-channel blockers of the NMDA receptor (N-methyl-D-aspartate), which is one of the ionotropic glutamate receptors.

The also popular ketamine (45) has a structure similar to that of phencyclidine (39). Since dissociative anesthesia (separation of body and mind) is often associated with a profound psychological experience marked by fear, the medical use of ketamine (45) in humans is problematic. Even so, it is still an important drug in emergency medicine. The addition of benzodiazepines such as midazolam can reduce the nightmare-like hallucinations during the waking up phase. Similar to phencyclidine (39), it is frequently misused as a dissociative and intoxicant. There are numerous reports of bad trips that often end with admission to a psychiatric clinic because of careless dosing. The two substances cause intense analgesia and amnesia in the consumer, without the occurrence of sleep. The experience was occasionally compared with a near-death experience [47]. Due to the analgesia, self-harm can occur during the trip
More recent studies show that some NMDA antagonists of this class have antidepressant effects and, in contrast to conventional antidepressants, act immediately [48].

Another important factor is the dose of such compounds. At Erowid, for example, phencyclidine (39) under "light oral PCP dose" has a range of 3-5mg. Be there
