Activity [5]. The increased stimulation lasted between 5 and 24 hours, depending on the dosage. At 5 mg / kg, the stimulation began 45-60 minutes after application and lasted 4-5 hours. Pemoline (11) is sparingly soluble in many solvents, including water, and was therefore given as a suspension. At single doses of up to 50 mg / kg, the test animals showed a sharply increased motor activity that lasted for several days [5] (possibly a consequence of the delayed absorption due to the low solubility of pemoline).



The energizing effects were confirmed by some test persons: low oral doses of 5-20 mg were sufficient to achieve significant effects [5]. These started after around 30 minutes and lasted for 2-5 hours. Motor stimulation was not significant at this dose. The stimulation of the psyche was also only weak, but the more pronounced it was, the longer the subsequent exhaustion lasted. In addition, the inventors mentioned that pemoline did not cause any unpleasant side effects and that the compound had the advantages of containing an appetite-stimulating component in addition to the increase in energy [5] (the lack of an anorectic effect was also shown by Poos et al. [ 6]). In addition, neither breathing, cardiac function nor the digestive organs were affected. The WHO mentioned a slower onset of the effects on the CNS than with amphetamine and the maximum effect is reached after two to three hours [7].
In contrast to amphetamine, which produced a significant increase in blood pressure in cats even at low doses of 0.05 mg / kg, pemoline (11) did not increase either arterial or venous blood pressure (cats, dogs) even at doses of up to 500 mg / kg (!) and rabbits, administration into the duodenum [duodenum]).
According to the authors, the daily administration of higher doses over a longer period of time did not induce any habituation or dependence. The acute toxicity was classified as very low: in rats the LD50 was 500 mg / kg. The administration of this dosage to other test animals (cats, dogs and rabbits) produced “only” a very strong increase in locomotion which lasted for several days. Even the daily administration of 100 mg / kg to rats for three months produced no change in the blood level and subsequent examination of various organs did not indicate any changes.
The WHO, however, relativized the harmless facts presented and mentioned palpitations, excitability, insomnia, tremor, dilated pupils, increased blood pressure and pulse rate as well as nausea as possible side effects [7]. In the WHO report from 1989 it can be read further that pemoline is not able to induce dependence in monkeys, a dose of 75 mg pemoline (11) is regarding the effects on the
