After a series of reaction tests and interviews, the authors come to the following conclusions, among other things: “Symptoms appear that exclude the ability to operate stamping machines or drive vehicles.” However, they do issue a certain warning: “ Finally, it should be pointed out that the opinion that is sometimes expressed in lay circles that amphetamines can replace physiological rest ('holiday tablets') cannot be fought strongly enough. "

Ironically, the improper use of Benzedrine® presumably intensified as a result of this warning. Rasmnssen writes [2]: "SKF did its best to downplay any association between drug abuse and amphetamine". In 1939, SKF launched a large-scale advertising campaign with full-page advertisements to raise awareness of the prevalence of mild depression. In their advertisements, they described the symptoms so vaguely that anyone could feel addressed. The 'patient with mild depression, according to SKF advertising, to name a few, has the following symptoms: 1.) apathy, inappropriate pessimism, 2.) subjective difficulty thinking ... 3.) subjective feelings of weakness 4. ) Hypochondria.

“The first ten years”, as one of the following advertisements shows (Fig. 1), is somewhat optimistic; According to Rasmussen, you get ten years if the research before Gordon's “discovery” in 1929 is added. But the first ten years give the impression of a solid (longer) success story.

These descriptions, as well as advertising in magazines that mainly dealt with general medicine, noticeably broadened the field of application of Benzedrine®. On the one hand, SKF's marketing strategists focused in these magazines on the target audience of general practitioners: the elderly, menopausal women and the chronically ill. A slogan in 1944 was “When apathy prolongs convalescence” (“When apathy delays recovery”). On the other hand, scientists who appeared in the title of the publication as independent and who were in the service of the public universities published new results such as Prinzmetal and Alles again in 1940 [14]. As mentioned, Everything got 5 percent royalties from amphetamine sales; How deliberately this agreement was kept secret is not known. They examined the effects of the optical isomers on healthy people and on narcolepsy patients and came to the conclusion that the central effects of the dextro isomer were three to four times stronger than that of the levoisomer [14]. Even if these first results on the optical isomers were later confirmed, scientific publications served, as they are still today, to generate attention

The effects, which were initially recognized as "side effects", were so pronounced that amphetamine (1) was finally needed for precisely these indications during the Second World War. For example, advertisements recommended an amphetamine-containing product to the soldiers, which should help in difficult situations. The physiological and psychological effects of amphetamine (1) seemed to be made for a warrior, The pictures from SKF in Fig. 1 below speak for themselves.
