Although further large residues are attached to fentanyl (29), it too, including some of its derivatives, can be counted among the N, N-disubstituted phenethylamines.Fentanyl (29) is about 100 times more effective in humans than morphine and is one of the most potent Pain relievers [18]. In addition to analgesic effects, it also has respiratory depressive effects and is characterized by its short duration of action, which is why it is used in surgical interventions. "Regarding repeated administration during a procedure, a late, possibly fatal respiratory depression can occur due to the redistribution of the opioid from the peripheral tissues into the brain." [19]. Today, fentanyl (29) is often applied in the form of an active ingredient-containing paste. Fentanyl is even officially sold as "Lollipop". Thanks to this unusual dosage form, the active ingredient is quickly absorbed through the oral mucosa and the pain patient can lick it until it is pain-free. This form of application is used especially in cancer patients who suffer from acute so-called "breakthrough pain" in addition to their chronic pain. With prolonged use, as with other opiates, there is a great risk of physical dependence. Fentanyl (29) has appeared repeatedly on the illegal drug market since the 1970s to stretch or imitate heroin. The extreme potency makes dosing difficult, and overdosing can quickly result in death [20].
Fentanyl (29) was the first synthetic opioid to hit the market in 1960. A few other drugs, some of which were even more potent, followed later, such as sufentanyl (30), which has a 1000-fold relative analgesic potency compared to morphine. Carfentanyl is even more potent (31). This derivative has a potency of 5000 times that of morphine. In contrast to fentanyl, carfentanyl (31) is not used in anesthesia or for pain treatment, but is used as Wildnil® to anesthetize (wild) animals. Carfentanyl (31) achieved inglorious notoriety in 2002 when Chechen hostage-takers occupied a Russian opera. It is assumed that carfentanyl (81) was used by the Russian security forces as an aerosol in combination with an inhalation anesthetic such as halothane [21]. When the police storm the opera and attempted to free the hostages, more than 120 hostages died, among other things from a mysterious substance called "Kolokol-1" in Russia.
More potent derivatives are constantly being discovered. Currently, fluoro-ohmefentanyl (32) is probably the strongest known opioid. It is around 18,000 times more potent than morphine [22].
