1000 made more selective. On the other hand, substituents in every position in the phenoxy ring reduce the potency for 5-HT reuptake inhibition (in addition to CF3, OCH3 CH3 BE, and C) were also investigated). The relationships between this basic structure were described in a patent by Eli Lilly with dozens of derivatives, including the associated IC50 values for reuptake inhibition (NE, 5-HT) [7].
    Fluoxetine (9) is on the market as a racemate. The R and S enantiomers inhibit the uptake of 5-HT to a similar extent (functional assay, summarized in [5]): Ki R isomer: ~ 21nM and S isomer: ~ 16nM. Interestingly, the selectivity profile of the metabolites changes. In the case of the corresponding N-demethylated compound 10 (norfluoxetine), the S isomer is 14 times more potent than the R isomer (Ki = 20nM to 268nM, summarized in [5]).
    The plasma half-life of fluoxetine (9) is 1-3 days and that of the metabolite norAuoxetine a remarkable 7-15 days. The usual dose is 20 mg per day, fluoxetine (9) also has a relatively high affinity for the serotonin r5-HT2A receptor ([3H] ketanserin, Ki ~ 140nM) [8]. Fluoxetine is also a CYP2D6 inhibitor [9].



    The thienyl derivative duloxetine (LY227942, 11) is a dual norepinephrine and serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) [10]. The (+) - S enantiomer of 11 is about two times more potent than (-) - R-11 in inhibiting serotonin reuptake, and so it has been further developed so that the drug is enantiomerically pure. It is a fluoxetine analog and a successor / supplement product of fluoxetine and is characterized by its faster onset of effects in the treatment of depression. It is also used to treat generalized anxiety disorders. It was approved in 2004 and since then it has been traded in the USA under the names Cymbalta® or Yentreve® and in the EU under Cymbalta® and Xeristar® [11]. Various new possible indications for duloxetine have emerged that have nothing to do with depression, such as various types of pain, chronic fatigue, stress-related incontinence (only in the EU) and premature ejaculation [12].
    Atomoxetine (R-configuration; 12) is a selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor. Atomoxetine (12, Strattera®, Tomoxetin®, Attentin®) is approved in the USA and Germany for the treatment of hyperkinetic syndrome (attention-deficit hyperactivity syndrome; ADHD), and it currently appears to be the only non-stimulatory drug for its treatment his [13] (Amphetamine and Ritalin lead to a stimulation of motor skills and the psyche in healthy people and therefore harbor a high potential for abuse; see Chapter 1 and Chapter 3.12.4.1). The effort required
