Table 2. Pharmacological profile (release and inhibition of uptake of NE, DA and 5-HT) of selected substances, functional assay [25].



2.3.3. Interactions and poisoning

Lethal doses in humans are in the range of several 100 milligrams, but can also be much lower in sensitive or pre-stressed people. People who are used to amphetamine (1) can endure many times this. Very high doses release massive amounts of dopamine (7) in the CNS, which can lead to acute psychotic states with delusions and hallucinations. These symptoms can also occur after chronic use and persist for several days [22]. The combined intake of amphetamine (1) with MAO inhibitors increases the central and peripheral sympathomimetic effects, which are prone to risk.

The strong psychomotor stimulant amphetamine (1) can quickly lead to psychological dependence in both humans and animals. The euphoric effect on the reward system leads to further substance use. The development of a tolerance, which is associated with upset and a strong desire for a renewed supply of amphetamines, sets in quickly. The constant exhaustion of the dopamine system (or at most the norepinephrine system) requires ever higher doses of amphetamine (1) in order to achieve the same rewarding effect. A vicious circle of withdrawal and consumption quickly sets in. People who have once successfully completed an amphetamine (1) or methamphetamine (9) withdrawal treatment report many years later that they can no longer experience any real joy in life.

2.3.4. The chirality determines the activity

Amphetamine (1) consists of the two stereoisomers dextroamphetamine with (+) - S and levoamphetamine with (-) - R configuration. As known from various studies, the two stereoisomers (+) - S-amphetamine (1a) and (-) - R-amphetamine (1b) have very different in-vitro and (in rats) in-vivo properties. Differences are only shown here in extracts; please refer to further literature [21, 33-38]. Fig. 3 shows the relative potency. (-) - R-amphetamine is by definition = 1.
