“Fundamental methodological error”, “Meta-analyzes always involve the risk of mixing up the results of methodologically inadequate studies with such meaningful studies” [42].

An important contraindication for SSRIs is acute suicidality, as it does not inhibit the patient's drive and some people only find the courage to commit suicide after taking SSRIs. For this reason, various bodies (e.g. FDA and EMEA) have issued a clear warning against the use of antidepressants.

Prozac hit the headlines again when scientists in England found measurable amounts of fluoxetine (30) in drinking water and rivers. There was speculation about secret mass medication. In August 2004 the Observer published an article with the headline: “Stay calm everyone, there's Prozac in the drinking water”. The real reason for this, however, is different: In the previous years, so many people had taken Prozac that measurable amounts of unmetabolized fluoxetine were excreted in the urine and thus ended up in the sewer system [43].


Newer generations

Duloxetine (32) was patented by E4 Lilly in 1990 [44]. Its use is controversial in the specialist press ("Is there a place for Duloxetine?") [45]. Also closely related is atomoxetine (33, Strattera®), a norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (NRI), which was developed by Eli Lily, among others It is marketed for the treatment of ADHD [46]. Dapoxetine (34) is only extremely short-acting and therefore not suitable as an antidepressant. However, like other SSRIs, it has an effect on male ejaculation. This initial side effect could be exploited , and in 2009 the substance Priligy® received approval for the treatment of premature ejaculation (ejaculatio praecox) in some European countries.



A whole range of antidepressant agents unrelated to the fluoxetine legacy were developed in the 1970s and 1980s. Some of them also developed into blockbusters. It would go beyond the scope to show their special features and, in some cases, different areas of application. the
