No need to sleep for hours. The high is followed by deep sleep. It may take many days for the sleep-wake phases to fully return to normal. Depression and tiredness are seen as a counter-reaction to a single high dose as well as to prolonged use of lower doses. High doses can produce long-lasting and pronounced effects, some of which are extremely long.
Chronic consumption leads to stereotypical behavior. At least in animal experiments, this is triggered by dopamine (7) and can be suppressed with neuroleptics [22]. At the same time, sudden outbursts of aggression and violent behavior are reported. The extent of such effects depends very much on the personality structure and can vary widely. In addition, paranoid delusions and severe loss of appetite are other symptoms of chronic consumption.



Animal experiments confirm that after frequent consumption of amphetamine (1) the natural reward system increasingly fails and after repeated administration the effectiveness of amphetamine (1) decreases due to the depletion of monoamine stores. One speaks at
this form of tolerance development of tachyphylaxis [22] (for details see, for example, [24]). Chronic use in animals showed a significant deficiency in dopamine (7) and the enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase; the latter is used for the synthesis of dopamine (7) in the brain. From this it can be concluded that neurons are damaged and that the amounts of dopamine (7) usually released are not sufficient to trigger a positive sensation. The amounts of dopamine (7) released from satisfactory processes and the joy of a positive event are obviously too low to naturally produce the rewarding effect. Under certain circumstances, the feeling of reward only arises when a dopamine secretion such as amphetamine (1) is consumed, which ultimately explains the chronic intake as an "addictive substance".


2.3.2. On the central mechanism of action of amphetamine

It must be said in advance that in publications prior to 2001 the focus of science was primarily on the interaction with dopaminergic neurotransmission (release and reuptake inhibition of dopamine (DA, 7)). Thereafter, the amount of freely available dopamine is generally increased. It was not until Rothman et al. supplemented 2001 with the noradrenergic hypothesis and drew increasing attention to the interaction of amphetamine (1) with norepinephrine (NE, 8) [25] (see Table 2). The central role of NE (8) as a neurotransmitter appears to be reflected in the effects of amphetamine (1)
