initiation

Why is a manual of Phenethylamines being written? Where do the chemical compounds on these book pages come from and what are they good for? The fascination is not immediately apparent to everyone. Let us therefore investigate the question of why the structure of 2-phenylethylamine (PEA) is represented by so many protagonists in our daily life. To do this, you have to strike an interdisciplinary link with adjacent areas.
The exclusively chemical approach, which starts with the privileged structures and the favored protein interaction, is a beginning, but does not lead to the goal.
The question starts earlier and is too complex to be answered from just one discipline; Physics, history, anthropology, biology, and philosophy - yes, the love of wisdom - should all be included.


Mindfulness of the hexagon

Only when you study phenethylamines in detail do you see them everywhere, but this does not explain why or whether they occur more frequently at all. Here are a few little discussed suggestions. Like the hexagonal snail crystals, this shape with the six corners seems to be favored in nature: insects have six legs, honeycombs have six corners. The hexagon with its axes of symmetry and rotation seems to favor nature. Is it related to the fact that mathematically the number six is ​​the smallest perfect number (6 = 1 + 2 + 3)? Or the only number that is the product and sum (6 = 1 * 2 * 3) of three positive consecutive numbers? A hexahedron (cube) possesses
six equal areas. The creation myth - God created the world in six days - has shown the significance and mysticism of this number for generations.
The importance is also reflected in the hexagon of the phenyl ring. Or is it the other way around? Nature was expanded with the extremely common hexagonal phenyl unit. Since Kekulé's vision of the snake biting its tail (Ouroboros) we have known that this unity is also a ring, a circle - beginningless.


Chemical & physical

Why is there a PEA structure and not just any structure? This is also the discussion of the question of what advantages a phenyl ring has over saturated rings and why aromaticity creates benefits. So let's take a look at the ring on its own - without the alkylamine chain.
Benzene is the smallest naturally occurring aromatic compound. In n-hexane, each binding partner of a carbon atom has - due to the sp3 hybridization - a tetrahedral angle of almost exactly 109.5 °. When a ring closes with cyclohexane, the angular relationships remain the same, and therefore the carbon atoms can only be arranged in a "zigzag" manner, i.e. in a chair, tub or boat conformation. In the six-part
