The uptake of glucose (11) in the cells directly reflects the energy expenditure in the body. 18FDG (2-Deoxy-2- [18F] Auoro-D-glucose; 12) is transported like glucose into the cells that have an increased energy expenditure. This is of great importance in tumor diagnostics, since in this way it is possible to precisely localize the areas that are increasingly dividing or proliferating.


    Since the amount administered for diagnostic purposes is only in the pico- or femtomolar range, PET examinations are completely harmless to humans, both in terms of radiation and in terms of the substance. Therefore, you can safely administer new, selective ligands to a test person - even without having created an exact toxicological profile beforehand - and see in a PET scanner at which point in the body the compound is accumulated.


Small, hard and electronegative

    The high reactivity of fluorine (F2) contrasts with the high stability of organofluorine compounds [19]. Fluorine itself has a very low homolytic dissociation energy (due to the short bond length in F2, the free e-pairs repel; this is followed by rapid radical formation and subsequent reactions) and a very high redox potential. The by definition highest electronegativity (3.98) of all atoms, the high electron affinity (3.45 eV) and ionization energy (17.4 eV; 1680 kJ / mol), the small ion radius (133ppm) and the resulting very low polarizability of fluorine explain the extremely low reactivity of Organofluoric substances [19]. This special nature of fluorine enables physical parameters such as lipophilicity or dipole moment to be changed. Amazingly, a fluorine atom on an alkyl chain can lower its lipophilicity [4]. The improvement of binding properties and the variation of the metabolic stability of potential new active ingredients distinguish fluorine as a tool in the development of active ingredients. Advances in fluorine chemistry now enable chemists to introduce fluorine and fluoroalkyl groups into the desired positions on the target molecule [3, 4, 19].
    Based on the Van der Waals radii, fluorine (1.47A) is only about 20% larger than a hydrogen atom (1.20Å). Although - depending on the calculated models - the Van der Waals radius is more like an oxygen (1.52Å), the assumption that F can be replaced by H with minimal steric consequences remains valid. There are numerous examples in the literature where fluorine is used has successfully replaced either an oxygen or a hydrogen atom [3, 4]. Extended casting time, increased
