While N, N-dimethylation of amphetamine supplies the almost inactive N, N-DMA (1) and homologation of the side chain (see Chapter 3.6) of amphetamine is also associated with a loss of effectiveness, Prolintan (20) shows clear stimulating effects. Amphetamine works by releasing and inhibiting the reuptake of NE and DA, and Prolintan (20) produces its effects by inhibiting the reuptake of these two monoamines. The intermediate structures N, N-DMA (9) or side chain homologated amphetamines (Chapter 3.6) presumably do not have any of these pharmacological effects to a sufficient extent, so that they are almost inactive with regard to the stimulating effects.

Another amphetamine derivative that has appeared on the illicit market is alphamethylfentanyl (21). In terms of its effect, the highly potent μ-opioid agonist no longer has anything to do with amphetamine. Known as "China White", it appeared on the black market as a heroin substitute in the mid-1970s.


3.2.2. N, N-dialkyl-substituted phenethylamines

Amazingly, N, N-disubstituted phenethylamines have received little research. This could not least be due to the fact that both phenethylamine itself (Chapter 1) and its N-monoalkylated analogues generally have very few usable pharmacological properties (Chapter 3.1.2). N, N-Dimethylphenethylamine (22), together with its closest structural relatives (Ph-CH2CH2-NH2, -NHMe and -N + Me3), has been examined for blood pressure in cats and dogs [17].



As already described in the amphetamine series (Chapter 3.2.1), Giennon et al. in the case of the phenethylamines, a number of superpotent sigma ligands (14, 23-28; values marked as Ki, [3H] DTG, σ-total binding affinity). These are called superpotent when the affinities are in the sub-nanomolar range. The simple structural requirements and the tolerance towards structural modifications are fascinating. Although the sigma receptors were discovered years ago, their function remains debatable and a therapeutic use, in spite of potent ligands, remains to date
not foreseeable.
