many other drugs may be changed, which sometimes leads to serious side effects. In this context, the synthetic opioid pethidine (see Chapter 3.12.4.1) is mentioned again and again, which in combination with MAO inhibitors can cause life-threatening states of excitement [20].
Since tyrosine is broken down by MAO-A and MAO-B, attempts are now being made to use selective inhibitors so that at least the other, non-inhibited MAO subtype is available for the breakdown of biogenic amines. MAO-A inhibitors are mainly used in depression, because MAO-A preferentially breaks down serotonin, and MAO-B inhibitors in Parkinson's disease. Nevertheless, everyone who takes MAOIs should be extra careful with the use of any medication and pay attention to their diet!
A hallucinogenic brew called Ayahuasca has been made and ritually used by shamans in South America for thousands of years [21]. On the one hand, it contains parts of plants (leaves of the Psychotria viridis plant) that contain dimethyltryptamine (DMT). Ingested orally, this substance would not have any effect on humans [22], since it is immediately broken down by the MAO. The shamans didn't know that at the time; On the other hand, they knew that if they added further plant material to the brew (jungle banisteriopsis caapi) containing MAO-inhibiting harman alkaloids (e.g. harman, harmol, harmalol and harmalin), then they would receive their highly effective "magic potion" [21, 23 , 24].

Another complication can arise when MAOIs are taken with compounds that use another mechanism to increase serotonin levels. This includes most antidepressants, especially serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SERT inhibitors) or even serotonin-releasing substances such as MDMA (see Section 7.5.6). This combination leads to dangerously excessive levels of serotonin, which can lead to symptoms such as nausea, diarrhea, chills, tremors, muscle stiffness, headache, insomnia, confusion and fever. The effects are to a certain extent similar to the extrapyramidal, Parkinson's-like disorders during neuroleptic treatment and can assume life-threatening conditions. One speaks here of the serotonin syndrome. Serotonin syndrome can occur not only in combination with MAO inhibitors, but also generally through overstimulation of the serotonergic system, e.g. through an overdose of a serotonin agonist.

The occurrence of amine oxidases should be briefly discussed here, since the extracellular or intracellular occurrence has a decisive influence on the actual effect in the organism. As mentioned, MAO-A and MAO-B only occur intracellularly.
Tyramine supplied with food has no effect until it is actively transported into the cell interior by monoamine transporters such as the norephedrine transporter (NET) or the dopamine transporter (DAT) [25]. Once the tyramine is in the cell, it can be broken down by the MAO. If this does not happen because the MAO is inhibited, then tyramine acts on the monoamine transporters as a norepinephrine and dopamine releaser [26]. Since tyramine does not cross the blood-brain barrier
