The retina-specific amine oxidase, or RAO (encoded by the AOC2 gene), appears to be able to metabolize a wide range of phenethylamines. It occurs extracellularly. Although the mRNA of the enzyme was found in different tissues, so far an unambiguous enzyme activity could only be determined in the eye. It can also be inhibited by semicarbazide [11].
The actual semicarbazide-sensitive amine oxidase SSAO (encoded by the AOC3 gene) has been known for a long time. It is a soluble, copper-containing enzyme that only occurs extracellularly. Clark et al. investigated the deamination rates of different phenethylamines as early as 1965 (see also Table 1 in Section 8.6). They found, for example, that mescaline is metabolized exclusively via semicarbazide-sensitive amine oxidases. The SSAO is also inhibited by propargylamines.
The monoamine oxidases (MAO) have the enzyme code EC 1.4.3.4 and are of particular importance for the breakdown of the neurotransmitters, since they "render harmless" the signal molecules inside the cell when they are no longer needed. They are bound to the mitochondrial membrane and therefore only occur inside the cell, where they are not available for the breakdown of extracellular, i.e. released, neurotransmitters. Neurotransmitters located extracellularly are almost exclusively inactivated by being transported back into the cell (reuptake). Once the neurotransmitters are inside the cell, they are either quickly broken down by the MAO or packaged in protective vesicles by the vesicular monoamine transporter (VMAT), where they are available for re-release. If xenobiotics are broken down by the MAO, then it is also true for them that they first have to get into the cell.
So far, MAO is the only amine oxidase that has therapeutic significance as a drug target. MAO inhibitors have been specifically developed for many decades, and there are innumerable representatives that are usually classified according to their therapeutic application or their subtype selectivity. The classification here is more from a chemical-mechanistic point of view.


MAO inhibitors: classification into inhibiting mechanisms

Two isoenzymes are known: the MAO-A and the MAO-B. They are the most prominent representatives of the amine oxidases. There are many inhibitors that have different indications, ranging from depression to Parkinson's disease to narcolepsy. The inhibitors are either selective or nonselective, and bind either reversibly (i.e. competitively) or irreversibly (i.e. covalently). In order to get a systematic overview, the MAO inhibitors should be classified here according to their molecular mechanisms of action. The irreversibly binding MAO inhibitors can be structurally divided into 3 groups: hydrazine, cyclopropyl and propargylamine derivatives (Table 1).

Compounds 14-17 belong to the class of hydrazine derivatives, which are now classified as obsolete due to their relatively high toxicity. They are first broken down by the MAO, creating a radical. Due to the generally high reactivity of radicals, the rather unselective inhibition of both MAO types, as well as
