After there were several indications that with increasing size of the N alkyl residue (ie, larger than ethyl) of amphetamine, the activity generally decreases (CNS effects, locomotor activity, release of 3H-NE in the heart of the mouse, inhibition of the accumulation of NE im Rat brain and in the aorta of the rabbit etc., summarized in [35]), Woolverton et al. the d-isomers of compounds 1-3, 6 and 8 on self-administration in monkeys and the inhibition of milk intake in rats, which is supposed to represent a measure of the anorectic properties [35]. It was also observed how these substances influence the spontaneous beating of the isolated guinea pig atrium. Here, too, it was found that amphetamine (1), methamphetamine (2) and ethylamphetamine (8) have comparable potency. If the N-substituent exceeded the size of an ethyl group, the examined effects generally decreased significantly.

Compounds 18-24, along with other substances, were patented as new psychostimulatory agents [36]. They have a different spectrum of effects and, according to the patent holder, can be used in therapy for increased psychological activity (learning and remembering) and for treating depression and learning and memory deficits (e.g. Alzheimer's disease). Since they presumably do not act as releasers, but only as reuptake inhibitors, according to the patent holder they should be free from addictive side effects (the fact that this concept does not always work is explained in the excursus on monoamine transporters).
Compounds 25-26 were also patented together with other (phenyl and / or β-hydroxy-substituted) compounds and examined for appetite inhibition [37]. A partially mild stimulating effect was mentioned. The adamantyl derivative 27 (N- (1-adamantanylmethy]) -2-phenylisopropylamine) was described by Kudryashova et al. tested for pharmacological activity (including toxicity and spontaneous motor activity). Amazingly, 27 showed no stimulating, but even a CNS-depressing effect.

Biamphetamine (di (ß-phenylisopropylJamine; DPIA; 28) was found as an impurity in illegal amphetamine samples [38, 39], sometimes even in considerable amounts (up to 38% (!), Summarized in [40]). The pharmacological and toxicological Effects were therefore examined in more detail [40]. In mice and rats, it was able to increase motility and stereotypical behavior. Amphetamine was nine and twelve times as potent in these tests, respectively. Like amphetamine, 28 was able to inhibit the food intake of test animals. The toxicity was with amphetamine Interestingly, the effects on the cardiovascular system (in anesthetized rats and on the isolated atrium) were opposite to those of amphetamine: blood pressure, strength of contraction and heart rate were reduced. In summary, the investigations showed that DPIA (28) has comparable central properties and the The main difference lies in the lower potency of DPIA. It was also mentioned that that here S-amphetamine was compared with a mixture of the three possible stereoisomers of DPIA. It is likely that the three stereoisomers are active differently. A primary study of the metabolism in rats suggests that a biotransformation to amphetamine takes place [39]. If a stereoisomer of DPIA (28) is actually metabolized to a large extent to amphetamine, the potency will largely depend on the configuration of the stereoisomer. This is because (-) - R-amphetamine, in contrast to (+) - S-amphetamine, has almost no CNS effect (see Chapter 2.3.4).
