CNS comparable with about 15 mg amphetamine, and the euphoric reactions are much less pronounced than with 30 mg amphetamine [7].
Pemoline (11; available on the drug market as a pemoline-magnesium complex) is used today, for example, under names such as Tradon速, Hyperilex速, Cylert速, or Stimul速, primarily for the treatment of narcolepsy and ADHD (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder; also known as hyperkinetic syndrome) marketed. There are rare cases in which life-threatening liver failure has occurred. Therefore, according to the medical information from Lilly [8], pemoline (11) should only be used if treatment with other drugs used (e.g. Ritalin, see Chapter 3.12.4.1) was unsuccessful. In addition, the liver function values must be checked regularly.
Due to its driving and performance-enhancing effects, pemoline (11) was put on the doping list and is also on the list of narcotics in some countries. Abuse of pemoline (11) has been recorded in Belgium, Germany, England, Thailand and Argentina [7].

The mechanism of action of pemoline (11) is based, at least in vitro, on the competitive inhibition of norepinephrine and dopamine uptake [9]. The related compound fenozolone (15) also showed this mode of action, and fenozolone (15) is also able to release norepinephrine, dopamine and serotonin [10] (see following pages). The great structural similarity between pemoline (11) and fenozolone (15) suggests similar effects of monoamine release. It would therefore be of great interest whether pemoline (11) as a potential serotonin releaser, like the anorectic Aminorex (17), can lead to pulmonary hypertension (for discussion see the following pages).

In 1962 Howell et al. a series of N, N-dialkyl-substituted structural analogs (12) of pemoline (11) [11]. The N, N-dimethyl analog 13 was found to be a mild stimulant and antidepressant with anorectic properties. It was later named thozalinone [12]. Compound 14 has an additional methyl group in the benzyl position. It turned out to be more of a central depressant agent [11].
The N-ethyl derivative 15 bears the name fenozolone (also called phenozolone) and acts as a psychostimulant in clinical studies [13]. Baumevieille et al. report on its potential for abuse [14]. Ramirez et al. showed in 1978 that fenozolone (15) can competitively inhibit norepinephrine and dopamine uptake in vitro [9]. It was later shown that it can release norepinephrine, dopamine and serotonin from the intracellular stores [10]. It thus functions as both a dopamine and norepinephrine releaser and reuptake inhibitor. Functional nuclear magnetic resonance showed that fenozolone (15) (20 mg) can modulate cerebral motor activity in a test person [15].

Further substitutions on exocyclic nitrogen are summarized in Ref. [16], which also describes the pharmacological investigation of propargylpemoline (16). With the introduction of a propargylic residue, it should be checked whether this structural element, as with selegiline (chapter 3.2.1) and rasagiline (chapter 3.13), also leads to MAO inhibitors and an antidepressant effect. This substance was shown in the tests more potent than pemoline (11) and methylphenidate for antidepressant effects (mouse dopa response test).
