iAn obvious derivatization of basic nitrogen is its acylation. In 1958 and 1959 Shapiro et al. of various N-acylated amphetamine derivatives, the effect on locomotor activity; The S-enantiomer of N-Fos mylampheta min (31; Formetorex) turned out to be the most effective compound (10mg / kg, sc, rats) and increased the locomotion by 500% compared to the control group (rac. Amphetamine: 534%) [32, 33]. In comparison with amphetamine, there were no cardiovascular effects (increase in blood pressure; tested on isolated guinea pig hearts and on anesthetized dogs). The minimum lethal dose of Sf-31 for mice was three times higher than that of rac, amphetamine. The two researchers Cavallito and Gray showed in a patent from 1970 that the N-formylation of R-amphetamine provides an anorectically very effective compound (R-31; 2.5-5mg / kg, dogs, p.o,); R-31 showed no CNS stimulation (2.5-10 mg / kg, dogs, p.o., and mice, i.p.) [34]. The enantiomer S-31 - based on S-amphetamine - was found to be only slightly more potent with regard to the anorectic effect compared to R-31; on the other hand, the CNS stimulation known from amphetamines was largely retained [34]. Formetorex (31) never reached the pharmaceutical market; however, it continues to make a career as a chemical contamination product (Leuckart reaction) in illegal amphetamine and methamphetamine samples [35-37].
With N-acetylation (N-acetylamphetamine; 32) there is a very effective elimination of the increased locomotor activity known from amphetamine [26]. Fristrom et al. presented the inability of N-acetylamphetamine (32) to increase blood pressure in rats; in contrast to amphetamine, this was even slightly reduced by 32 [27]. N-acetylamphetamine (32) was found together with N-formylamphetamine (31) and other N-acylmethamphetamine derivatives as pyrolysis products in the smoke of methamphetamine mixed with tobacco [28].

    Despite all the attempts to improve the action profile of amphetamines through retardation with the help of polymers, starch or conversion into other functional groups, this technique was not successful. Retardation formulations, such as Adderall XR® (extended release), continuously release racemic and enantiomerically pure amphetamine from various salt forms and are primarily prescribed for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and narcolepsy (see Chapter 2).

New River Pharmaceuticals patented a spectacularly simple invention in 2005 and 2006 [29, 30]. These documents describe the production and bioavailability of abuse-resistant amphetamine prodrugs. The inventors produced amides from amphetamine and various amino acids, whereby the derivative (+) - S-lysinyl - (+) - S-amphetamine (33) proved to be optimal. Later, 33 was named lisdexamfetamine, and following a 2008 approval study, the FDA gave the go-ahead for marketing approval (trade name Vyvanse®). It has since become the treatment of the attentive
