The doubly deuterated α,α-dideuterophenethylamine (4) proved to be stable towards MAO (Fig. 1) [14]. It showed a long-lasting stimulus, completely generalized for phenethylamine (1) in a drug discrimination study (rats) and was clear
more potent than this [14]. It would also be interesting to test whether α, α-dideuterophenethylamine (4) would be a substitute in amphetamine-trained rats. So far there are no reports
its effect in humans is known. It could well be that this concept of the metabolic stabilization of phenethylamine derivatives can also be extended to other phenethylamines, which are in and of themselves in vivo inactive phenethylamines (see also Chapter 8.4.6, where the increase in the human potency of mescaline by an α, α - the explanation is documented).
It has been shown, for example, that phenethylamine (1) without an adjuvant in small doses gives cats a state of increased alertness and agitation, just as amphetamine can, and at higher doses phenethylamine (1) alone could also have effects like amphetamine, although the The duration of the effects was shorter (probably as a result of autoinhibition; summarized in [12]). It has also been shown that phenethylamine (1) can maintain self-administration in dogs [15]. However, there are still doubts as to whether phenethylamine (1) can even produce a stimulatory effect in humans after reaching the brain due to its metabolic lability. Binding properties to monoamine transporters, the actual targets for stimulants such as amphetamine, have apparently been completely absent to date [32].
Vaupel et al. presented in their study that the administration of phenethylamine (1) to dogs shows some amphetamine-like effects [16]. It was also compared whether, for example, breathing and pulse frequency, pupil diameter and body temperature
behave in the same way in dogs treated with LSD compared to untreated dogs.
S-amphetamine showed no cross-tolerance to LSD, and phenethylamine (1) also showed only a very weak cross-tolerance to LSD, which in view of the different targets (dopamine and norepinephrine transporters for amphetamine, and above all various 5-HT and dopamine Receptors for LSD) is not surprising either.

Nakajima, Kakimoto and Sano discovered the natural occurrence of phenethylamine (1) in the mammalian brain in 1964 [17]. Phenethylamine (1) was later declared a biogenic amine (summarized in [18]). L-phenylalanine (2a) is converted into phenethylamine (1) in the capillary endothelium of the brain and in catecholaminergic nerve endings by a simple decarboxylation (Fig. 2) [19]. The conversion takes place at about the same speed as the central synthesis of dopamine. Since phenethylamine (1) is not stored in intraneuronal vesicles, it is not considered a classic neurotransmitter, but is nonetheless an endogenous ligand on the trace along with other biogenic amines.
Amine receptor [20]. Like the other biogenic amines, it is broken down very quickly by the MAO, especially the MAO-B, and thereby inactivated [21].
It has been shown that the concentration of natural phenethylamine (1) in the brain increases sharply if an MAO inhibitor is administered beforehand (summarized in [22]).
There were also indications that phenethylamine (1) could be a neuromodulator of catecholamine activity. Karoum et al. investigated this on the amphetamine-induced release of dopamine [23]. Their results suggested that in addition to the release of dopamine after the amphetamine administration, phenethylamine (1) was also formed and released. However, these two processes are not directly related, and they assumed that the two substances are not released or formed at the same time. Thus, the effect of phenethylamine (1) should not be dependent on the release of dopamine.
