On the other hand, the steric rigidization mentioned above can provide an image of possible conformations. It is understandable, however, that even this trick cannot always solve the conflict at hand, since there is no way of forcing a molecule into a certain conformation without adding an additional atom or an additional bond. As a result of this modification, sterically different spatial conditions may be required under certain circumstances. The pharmacodynamics and kinetics can also be strongly influenced. In certain cases, however, rigidization can certainly contribute to success (e.g., [5]).
Another point to be considered is the multifunctional, simultaneous action of a substance on several targets and / or the action of any metabolites. Rigidized analogs can certainly produce a stronger effect on individual targets and at the same time be free of any effect on others or even interact with a new target. The spectrum of activity observed from the outside results as the sum of all effects and, with a rigid analogue, can be very differentiated from that of the parent substance.

The aminobenzocyclobutene derivative 1 is the smallest benzannellated amino alicyclic that has been investigated and can be regarded as the extreme conformation of 2-phenethylamine (Chapter 1) (Benzocyclopropene contains the smallest possible alicyclic, but amino derivatives were never made from it. For synthesis see, for example, [6]). It's a chiral compound. Substance 1 was examined together with other cyclic benzylamines (3, 19 and 34) for the inhibition of phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase (ENMT, E.C. 2.1.1.28) [7]. PNMT catalyzes the conversion of norepinephrine to epinephrine (summarized in [8]). The inhibition of the enzyme PNMT means that the production of epinephrine (adrenaline) in the CNS is suppressed so that the role of norepinephrine as a neurotransmitter could be examined more closely [9]. The synthesis of 1, 2 and some substituted compounds was described in 1964 [10] (see also the benzocyclobutene 2C-BCB in Section 8.5.27.1). The authors' motivation is based on the “chemical uniqueness of a four-membered ring directly linked to an aromatic” and the similarity to the phenethylamines. The synthesis of aminomethylbenzocyclobutene 2 and some aryl-substituted analogs was described in a patent in 1970 with reference to pharmacologically interesting properties, e.g. B. as analgesics [11].



1-Aminoindane (1-AI; 3) carries the next largest benzannelated alicyclic. Two positional isomers are possible here by shifting the amino group. 1-Aminoindane (1-AI; 3) showed a stronger inhibition of PNMT in vitro than the homologous cycles 1, 19 and 34 [7]. In general, the best results were achieved when the alie cycle consisted of five atoms. In addition, 1-AI (3) was examined for its ability to inhibit catecholamine uptake in the rat brain (synaptosomes of the corpus striatum and hypothalamus) [12]. It inhibited catecholamine uptake in brain regions less than 2-aminoindane (2-Al; 14).
The derivative 4 showed about 20 times more potent, irreversible monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibition than pargyline (5) [13]. Inspired by this, further derivatives substituted on nitrogen were investigated (H, methyl, ethyl, propynyl and butynyl residues) [13].
