were very unstable and therefore had to be tested immediately. Substance 35 showed no noticeable effects in the test animals in doses of 10 and 100 mg / kg (i.p.). Compound 36 produced no increase in locomotion, but exophthalmia (protrusion of the eyeball from the eye socket) was noted.



Summary


The early euphoria about the diverse properties of amphetamine (see Chapter 2) gradually subsided when it began to be realized that amphetamine had too many and too strong, intolerable side effects. Nevertheless, the basic structure was retained and it was hoped to maintain or even intensify the desirable effects through targeted modifications and thereby reduce the strong side effects. Attaching heteroatoms or groups is one of the possibilities, and this has resulted in a number of different drugs.
    Arylalkylhydrazines gave substances that are potent MAO inhibitors. In contrast to their direct Arylalkylamin-Kontrahenden lower z. B. the two hydrazine derivatives phenelzine (1) and pheniprazine (2) tend to increase blood pressure, metabolic stability is increased, and they do not show the appetite-suppressing effect. Phenelzine (1) is marketed under the name Nardil® and is used to treat depression, panic attacks, and obsessive-compulsive disorder.
By means of derivatization to sulfonamides, dithiocarbamates or thioureates as well as carbamate esters, the activity profile of amphetamine could also be significantly modified. N-trifluoromethanesulfonylamphetamine (12) lost most of the behavioral effects of amphetamine, but the appetite suppressant effects remained almost entirely, albeit significantly less potent.
In contrast to N-methoxyamphetamine (19), N-hydroxyamphetamine (18) largely maintains the spectrum of activity of amphetamine. By N-acylating amphetamine, the stimulating effects as well as the pressor effects could be efficiently eliminated (N-acetylamphetamine; 32).
The chemical binding of biologically active arylalkylamines to carriers such as starch or polymers can delay the effect. In spite of this, none of the investigated derivatives was previously suitable for medical use. However, a similar method has established itself with the derivative lisdexamfetamine (Vyvanse®, 33). (+) - S-amphetamine is acylated with the amino acid L-lysine and is only released enzymatically in the body. The slow, continuous release of amphetamines combats the symptoms of ADHD and at the same time makes abuse impossible: When enzyme saturation is reached, the release of amphetamine reaches its limits, and consumption of higher amounts only leads to the excretion of unmetabolized lisdexamfetamine (33).
