the test subjects reported dry mouth and nasal mucous membranes. They noticed the same effects after a long period of flooding, even when ingested orally. Amazingly, they never mention the stimulatory properties of amphetamine (1), which are clearly present at this dose (50mg) and could not go unnoticed (see discussion). The question is not whether they withheld these results, but why. Either they wanted to calmly research a better drug and further develop existing ones without “waking sleeping dogs”, or they were aware of the addictive potential and the market opportunities and deliberately hid this aspect because the side effects lead to the end of amphetamines (1) than Asthma medication. Was that why you were looking for another indication?



In the same year (1930) Alles submitted a patent, which was granted in 1932 [5]. The use of amphetamine (1) in the form of a salt, which was able to produce ephedrine-like effects in animals or humans, was protected. The pressor activity of amphetamine (1) was confirmed by Hartung and Munch in 1931 [6]. In 1933 Alles published more intensive studies on the physiological effects of amphetamines, including effects on blood pressure and breathing frequency [7]. The toxicity in guinea pigs was also determined. For the first time, other observed effects such as mydriasis (dilation of the pupils), piloreaction (straightening of the body hair; "goose looks"), tremors (tremors) and cramps were mentioned for the first time. In another study, Alles and Prinzmetal presented the effects of amphetamine (1) on the relaxation of the bronchi [8].
Over the next few years, everyone was looking for an oral asthma treatment that was superior to ephedrine and should not have any stimulatory effects. In the meantime he tried to find an indication for his failed asthma drug; for this reason he distributed amphetamine samples in 1933 to Nathanson as well as to Prinzmetall and Bloomberg, who tested it with some success on narcolepsy patients [9]. A psychiatrist and a gynecologist were also supplied. The science historian Rasmussen quotes the sociologist Rein Vos with the memorable phrase "drug-looking for a disease". While everything was using its own network to make its invention a success, Benzedrine®, launched by the pharmaceutical company Smith, appeared for the first time.
