In order to obtain even more potent compounds, the cyclic compounds (6-9) were also tested for these properties [13]. Substances 4 and 7 proved to be the most potent MAO inhibitors. Responsible for the irreversible MAO inhibition is the N-propargyl group, which can form a covalent bond to the FAD (flavin adenine dinucleotide), which is part of the enzyme MAO (see also excursus amine oxidases) [14].



The early studies on these molecules finally produced rasagiline (10a), the demethyl product of one stereoisomer of 4. It is known today as an irreversible and selective MAO-B inhibitor [15] (see also excursus amine oxidases) After detailed studies with 0.5mg to 2mg per day, approval for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (trade name: Azilect®). Furthermore, neuroprotective effects were found in vitro and in vivo [16]. Rivastigmine (11) has been used as Exelon® since 2006 for the symptomatic treatment of mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease and is also approved for the treatment of Parkinson's dementia [17]. Rivastigmine (11) inhibits acetycholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase [18]. In addition to oral formulations, Novartis also markets it as a transdermal patch [19].

The evolutionary combining of the pharmacophores of rasagiline (10a) and rivastigmine (11) paved the way for ladostigil (TV-3,326, 12) for clinical investigations [20]: Ladostigil (12) is a neuroprotective agent used for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's or Parkinson's disease is being investigated. It acts as a reversible acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase inhibitor and is at the same time an irreversible MAO-B inhibitor [21]. It is said to combine the mechanisms of action of drugs such as rasagiline (10a) and rivastigmine (11) in a single molecule.

The stereoisomer 10b, the two N-methyl derivatives 13a and 13b as well as a further extensive series of analogous structures of 10-12 were also examined for the MAO-A and MAO-B as well as the acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitory effect [20] .
