mediates the reuptake of dopamine, inhibits the release of dopamine and also triggers the phosphorylation of the DAT (with subsequent desensitization and internalization) [20, 21]. The researchers hope that the modulation of the 'TAAR can be used medicinally. With selective 'TAAR agonists and antagonists, new treatment options could possibly arise, including in the area of dependence and abuse of amphetamine and methamphetamine (2). The field of research is still relatively young and we can look forward to the first medical applications of specific TAAR ligands.

Illegal methamphetamine

Methamphetamine (2), which is illegally produced and sold on the black market, is divided into four different forms [22].

Methamphetamine tablets are often combinations of methamphetamine (2) and other substances such as caffeine, ephedrine, and glucose that serve as carrier material. The so-called Thai pills (also known as Yaba, which means “crazy drug” in Thai) gained attention in the media. Similar to the Eestasy pills, they can be decorated with various logos (often with “WY” or “Y”) and are offered in different shapes and colors [56]. Compared to the ecstasy tablets, the Thai pills are mostly smaller in diameter. Methamphetamine tablets are consumed orally, but sometimes smoked "on foil" or, after they have been dissolved, injected intravenously.
Methamphetamine powder is the crystalline, actually white hydrochloride salt, which, depending on the type of production and purity, is available reddish to brownish and often - like amphetamine powder - contains high levels of caffeine, but also glucose, table salt, dimethyl sulfone, sodium glutamate or sodium benzoate [55] . In addition to the application forms mentioned, it is snorted and also put into circulation as a crank.
The base is the waxy or oily substance made from methamphetamine (2), which apparently arises when local production facilities are unable to produce the hydrochloride salt, or when they produce the salt without sufficient purification (can contain synthetic impurities and / or a mixture of Contain base / salt - similar to the amphetamine paste). The chemically pure methamphetamine base is a colorless, slightly sweetish liquid with a rotting fish and pungent smell (the same applies to the free base of amphetamine).
Methamphetamine hydrochloride recrystallized from water and / or isopropanol is called crystal. As the name suggests, it looks like broken crystal, ice or glass. Such methamphetamine (2) usually has a high purity and is also offered on the street as ice or crystal meth.

Application types

Methamphetamine (2) is consumed in four different ways [22, 23]. Preferences seem to differ according to geographic location and have changed over time. There are also many reasons why someone uses methamphetamine (2). According to a study of 203 users, the most common responses were
