First of all, the phenyl ring can be replaced by any heteroaromatic (Chapter 4, 12 subchapters), whereby the stimulating properties of amphetamine (2) can be maintained (2-THAP; 18, Chapter 4.12) or derivatives of a completely different character can be obtained (For example the neurotransmitter histamine; 19, Chapter 4.3).
Replacing the phenyl ring with an alicyclic or alkyl radical has also been investigated (structure 20), and propylhexedrine (21, Chapter 5), for example, still shows certain effects of amphetamine (decongestion of the nasal mucous membranes).
The introduction of a single substituent in the aryl part produces a total of three substitution patterns (Chapter 6). The 2-substituted phenylalkylamines (Chapter 6.1) generally show little activity in the central nervous system (CNS). Also the 3-substituted substances (Chapter 6.2) show, with a few exceptions (e.g. the anorectic fenfluramine; 22), interactions with the CNS that are not worth mentioning. The most interesting aryl-monosubstituted derivatives are the 4-substituted phenylalkylamines (Chapter 6.3), of which some interact with serotonergic neurotransmission (e.g. the neurotoxin PCA; 23).
If two substituents are introduced in the phenyl ring, a total of six substitution patterns result (Chapter 7). The 3,4-disubstituted phenylalkylamines deserve special mention here (Section 7.5): The entactogenic MDMA (24), better known under the name of ecstasy, has not only cast a spell over a large number of consumers, but also many scientists. It releases monoamines (serotonin, norepinephrine and, to a lesser extent, dopamine) and increases the amount of oxytocin. Clinical studies with MDMA (24) support its therapeutic potential. The 2,5-disubstituted 2,5-DMA (25; Chapter 7.3) shows a weak interaction with the serotonin 5-HT2A and 5-HT2C receptors; it is an important substructure of a class discussed in the next main chapter.
If three substituents are introduced into the aromatic compound, six different classes result (Chapter 8). One of the most important classes should be emphasized here, that of the 2,4,5-trisubstituted phenylalkylamines (e.g. structure 26, Chapter 8.5).
For suitable substituents, more prominent representatives can be obtained from this book; many such derivatives turn out to be potent psychedelics (e.g. DOM, 27; R = Me). But the importance of the 3,4,5-trisubstituted phenylalkylamines (structure 27, chapter 8.4) should not be underestimated, because they include mescaline, which was discovered over a hundred years ago, and many derivatives thereof. Although only sparsely investigated so far, some also show the 2,4,6-trisubstituted phenylalkylamines have psychedelic effects in humans (structure 28, chapter 8.6). Common to the psychedelics to be found in these three chapters is the interaction with the 5-HT2A and 5-HT2C receptors, whereby the agonistic interaction with the 2A subtype is primarily made responsible for this extraordinary effect.

If another substituent is added, the tetrasubstituted phenylalkylamines are obtained (Chapter 9.). There are a total of three classes, and from a pharmacological point of view the 2,3,4,5- and 2,3,4,6-tetrasubstituted derivatives proved to be the most interesting of the generally little studied classes. In some cases the psychedelic effect of the already psychedelically active trisubstituted phenylalkylamines could be maintained - albeit in a different form (e.g. GANESHA; 29, or DODB; 30, chapter 9.1 and 9.2 respectively).
The penta-substituted phenylalkylamines (Chapter 10) are presented as the last class; The medicinal chemical process is also conceivable with this class that in already
