Serotonin from the nerve endings). This raised the question of whether this can also take place in the autonomic nervous system. Serotonin receptor systems are present in the lungs, and the serotonin transporters (SERT) present in the lung tissue are identical to those in the brain [20].
Serotonin is an active mitogen and as such stimulates the cell division of myocytes, primarily mediated by the 5-HT2B receptor [21 22]. As a result, the tissue around the heart valves proliferates, which leads to constriction. To make matters worse, serotonin is an extremely potent vasoconstrictor. In the blood, serotonin is found mainly in the platelets. Normal plasma levels are very low (<1nM), since serotonin is reabsorbed by the blood platelets by transporters [23]. Monoamine oxidase also contributes to maintaining these low concentrations through the metabolism of serotonin.
Patients with PAH had increased concentrations of circulating serotonin in the bloodstream compared with control persons (summarized in [23]). As early as 1974, Seiler, Wassermann and Wensky showed that Aminorex (17) inhibits the uptake of serotonin in isolated lungs of the rat [24]. This led to increased serotonin concentrations in the plasma and consequently to pulmonary vasoconstriction. People who already have increased serotonin concentrations in their blood or those who show an increased pulmonary sensitivity to serotonin could experience additional exposure from taking Aminorex (17), which could ultimately lead to PAH [23]. Rubin et al. suggest that anorectic drugs may accelerate the development of PAH in patients with a predisposition to PAH [25]. What initially contradicted this hypothesis, however, was the finding that there are also serotonin-releasing substances such as the anorectic fenfluramine, which, according to studies in the 1990s, do not increase the plasma concentrations of serotonin, although fenfluramine can trigger PAH (summarized in [23]) .
It then turned out, however, that the measurement of serotonin in blood plasma, which is still very demanding today, probably led to errors in the earlier measurements [23]. More recent in-vitro and in-vivo studies have clearly shown that various amphetamine analogues (fenfluramine, MDMA, methamphetamine, amphetamine) increase the serotonin concentration in the blood in a dose-dependent manner [23].

Most anorectics develop their hunger-reducing effect by increasing the 5-HT, DA and NE levels, or by activating the 5-HT2C receptor (summarized in [26]). There are also substances that antagonize the cannabinoid receptor CB1 [27]. The subject of current studies are opioid receptors [22]. In the excursus anorectics, various classes of substances and targets are discussed.

Rothman et al. published that all known anorectic substances that increase the risk of developing PAH (with varying degrees of severity) are substrates of SERT (Table 1) [26, 28]. They suspected that some of these substances or their metabolites are transported into the pulmonary cells and could thus trigger PAH. Substances that have a high affinity for SERT but act as reuptake inhibitors (RIs) and are not transported into the cell consequently do not cause the release of serotonin from the cell, but increase the plasma concentration by inhibiting the reuptake of serotonin. This type of substance does not seem to be associated with PAH [26, 28].
