Deficit / Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is used. New River Pharmaceuticals was bought by Shire Pharmaceuticals shortly before it was approved for marketing. The pharmacokinetics and oral bioavailability were tested, among other things, in a single-arm, open-label study in healthy adults, and the multi-dose pharmacokinetic profile coincided with that of release formulations (e.g. Adderall XR®). This remarkable trick (amide structure) maintains the oral bioavailability of amphetamine at therapeutic dosages, but increasing the dosage of lisdexamfetamine (33) substantially reduces the bioavailability. The potential for abuse is greatly reduced in this way, because the higher the amount of lisdexamfetamine taken orally, the less amphetamine is enzymatically released in the organism. It is believed that the hydrolysis process in the gastrointestinal tract reaches a natural limit and that excess lisdexamfetamine is excreted unchanged.
    Furthermore, intravenous or nasal administration and smoking of lisdexamfetamine (33) do not result in any significant hydrolysis, so that even such forms of abuse do not produce amphetamine and so there is no stimulation. The patent owners suspect that these amphetamine prodrugs generally have no intrinsic activity, because this chemical modification gives the lisdexamfetamine (83) molecule a high polarity that prevents it from crossing the blood-brain barrier [29, 30]. On the other hand, a greatly reduced affinity for the monoamine transporters (DAT and NET) is suspected; the affinity for these transporters is held responsible for the euphoric effect of amphetamine (see chapter 2.3.2).
    The patent holders reject the idea of releasing amphetamine by chemical hydrolysis of lisdexamfetamine (33). Although they show that acids (e.g. conc. HCl or H2SO4) and bases (e.g. NaOH or K2CO3) can partially achieve hydrolysis, the resulting decomposition products as well as the complex isolation limit this path. Commercial cleaning products containing mixtures of enzymes have also been tested. The most effective was only able to hydrolyze 7% lisdexamfetamine (33) to amphetamine after 24 hours. Even pure enzymes were able to release a maximum of 24% amphetamine after 24 hours.



    The introduction of a nitrile resp. Cyano group in biologically active amines was also examined. Smmissman et al. tested the compounds N-cyano-phenethylamine (34), N-cyano-N-methylphenethylamine (35) and N-cyanoamphetamine (36) for their biological activity [31]. The reason for their company was the discovery of an N-cyano compound that was undesirably produced in a degradation reaction of a natural product. Such organic cyanamide derivatives showed unexpectedly interesting properties, so that the idea arose to add this cyano group to the various phenylalkylamines as well. The derivatives can occur in a tautomeric carbodiimide structure. The substances
