Fig. 2. The Fidgety Philip, drawing from 1844 by Heinrich Hoffmann. Today it is symbolic for children with hyperactivity.



Children are treated. Despite being one of the best-studied drugs, a controversial public debate is taking place. The affected children with ADHD, their parents and doctors as well as psychologists and representatives of the pharmaceutical industry have different perspectives. This is where the foundations of the ongoing discussions between supporters and opponents can be found.

The diagnosis of ADHD can only be resolved seriously with some effort. In a dissertation on the subject, Schmutz writes. "ADHD was and is a combination of the most varied symptoms and symptom complexes of different etiologies under one disease name, which lead to conformity problems in social and domestic life" [63]. Methylphenidate clearly has the potential to improve the symptoms of the disease and is therefore rightly used [63]. The concentration-increasing effects, however, also occur in "normal" children or adults, which raises the question of the potential for abuse. In many places, Ritalin has therefore been included in the Narcotics Act, and its use is subject to a special prescription requirement. In popular science journals, these questions are more or less well-founded, but dealt with effectively in the media (see Fig. 3).

In addition to these ideological controversies, pharmacological knowledge was created. Chemically speaking, methylphenidate (52) can exist in four stereoisomeric forms (structures 52a-d). The drug Ritalin consists only of the two threo isomers 52a and 52b (racemic mixture). Pharmacologically decisive for Ritalin seems to be mainly the d-threo stereoisomer [65]. The erythro isomers 52c and 52d proved to be only weakly active and were mainly responsible for the toxic, hypertensive effect [66].
The stimulatory properties could be proven in animal experiments as well as in human studies. Van der Schoot et al. assigned methylphenidate (52) a relative potency to amphetamine of 19% with regard to locomotor stimulation (mice; i.p.) [58]. However, this seems to be strongly dependent on the test conditions (summarized in [67]). 52a is mainly responsible for the increased locomotion, 52b proved to be much weaker in this regard [65, 68]. Studies with humans (p.o.) have shown that the discriminative stimulus effects of methylphenidate (52) and amphetamine are similar [69].
