situations such as amphetamine (1) was given in the first golf war (Desert Storm and Desert Shield). The pilots who took these “go-pills” consisting of 5mg S-amphetamine (1a) reported positive effects on the effects; In contrast to “recreational use”, the small portions were taken orally every four hours and consumption was monitored by specialist staff [19]. The history of amphetamine use and abuse (1) is ambivalent and repeats itself, albeit with a little less emphasis [2, 42-43].



2.3. Pharmacological effects of amphetamine

Many decades have passed since Gordon Alles first experienced the effects first hand (1929). Since then, over a thousand tons of this substance have been legally and illegally produced and consumed worldwide. The new insights into the physiological effects arose from the current methods and worldviews of their time. As is customary in science, hypotheses that have been drawn up have either been falsified or supplemented and further developed over the years - a process that will not come to a standstill in the near future. New methods will raise new questions. In this context, the effects and their mechanisms are discussed.



2.3.1. Physiological effects of amphetamine

Orally administered amphetamine (1) is almost completely absorbed from the small intestine thanks to its good lipid solubility [22]. In the bloodstream, it crosses the blood-brain barrier, where it exerts its effect primarily by releasing the primary catecholamines dopamine (DA, 7) and norepinephrine (NE, 8) from the presynaptic storage locations [20-23]. It is through these mechanisms that the complex psychological and physiological properties are ultimately triggered. Different effects occur depending on the dose and type of application [23]. With low oral doses (5-20mg, action time 4-6h), blood pressure and heart rate are increased and the bronchial muscles relax. Sympathetic activation is the evolutionary holdover of preparation for flight and / or fighting; this is also evident in the psychological area. Increased alertness, alertness and euphoria are reported. "Secondary activities" such as eating and sleeping become less important. One experiences a feeling of strength. The urge to talk and increased motor activity accompany this condition. In experimental animals, the release of NE in the CNS becomes noticeable through an increase in motor activity [22]. It is reported, however, that although performance (by reducing the subjective feeling of exhaustion and physiological involvement of strength-relevant supply mechanisms) increases in the short term, dexterity and fine motor skills suffer.
At medium doses (10-30mg), the effects described are generally increased. One is obviously wide awake under pronounced states of excitement and feels during
