conclude that amitriptyline (17) itself (without its metabolite) is more sedating than imipramine (15) alone.
It is important to mention that all of these tricyclic antidepressants have a high acute toxicity, which is particularly unfavorable for an antidepressant. In some cases three to four times the daily dose is fatal! Fortunately, newer classes of substances are characterized by a much greater therapeutic range [27].


Starting points, hypotheses and new ways

As mentioned, the exact causes of depression are still not fully understood. Thousands of studies have been carried out to investigate the function of the respective neurotransmitter systems and thus to uncover the biological basis for depression. Despite the advances that have been made in this regard, knowledge in this area remains fragmentary and incomplete. The monoamine hypothesis is widespread. In depression, the homeostasis of the neurotransmitters (DA, NE, 5-HT) in certain areas of the brain is disturbed. It is generally assumed that there is a deficiency in neurotransmitters. Since the transmitters themselves are too hydrophilic to cross the blood-brain barrier and are quickly broken down by the monoamine oxidases (MAO), they cannot be used as drugs themselves. For this reason, either their breakdown (MAO inhibitors) or their uptake is inhibited (inhibitors on the respective transporters) in order to lengthen the retention time of the endogenously released neurotransmitters. Since the number of available neurotransmitters increases significantly with the first administration of an antidepressant, but the mood-enhancing and antidepressant effect only occurs after about two weeks, the exact neurochemical mechanism of action seems to be somewhat more complicated [28].
One explanation for the delayed onset of the effect is that the immediate increase in the transmitter concentration also stimulates presynaptic autoreceptors such as the serotonin 5-HT1A and the adrenergic α2 receptor. Presynaptic autoreceptors are an important feedback mechanism that regulates the intensity of signal transmission (see excursus on aspects of molecular pharmacology). When presynaptic autoreceptors are agonistically stimulated, they try to counteract the supposed flood of signals by regulating the release and synthesis of the respective endogenous transmitters downwards. Patadoxically, this leads to a reduced signal transmission and would be counterproductive. After prolonged overstimulation of the presynaptic autoreceptors, they themselves are desensitized or internalized via the arrestin-clathrin mechanism. This results in increased stimulation of the 5-HT1A receptors and is held responsible for the actual antidepressant and mood-enhancing effects of conventional antidepressants [29]. In contrast, a general and unselective increase in serotonergic transmission mainly leads to undesirable side effects such as fatigue and weight gain. In order to increase the 5-HT1A-specific effect, the administration of a 5-HT1A agonist such as buspirone (26) has proven to be helpful to support therapy with SSRIs [30, 31].
In return, the administration of a presynaptically active 5-HT1A antagonist would release more serotonin, with similar consequences
