Desmethylselegiline (39) is a metabolite of Selegiline® (40) and also an irreversible inhibitor of monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) in humans [47]. There are indications that the inhibition of MAO-B when taking selegiline (40) occurs due to the metabolite desmethylselegiline (39), which develops very quickly in humans [48]. Selegiline (40) is used to treat Parkinson's disease (for further metabolism and medical use of selegiline, see chapter 3.2. And excursus amine oxidases). Desmethylselegiline is further metabolized to (-) - R-amphetamine [49], which, however, in contrast to (+) - S-amphetamine, shows almost no clinical efficacy. A stimulating effect from Desmethylselegilin (39) or Selegilin® (40) can therefore be excluded.




3.1.2. Phenethylamines

Although, or perhaps precisely because, the unsubstituted phenethylamine (5) has very little pronounced effects (see Chapter 1), some diversifications have been made to its molecular structure. Some of the investigated N-monoalkylated phenethylamines are shown below.

In addition to the previously described by Van der Schoot et al. investigated N-monoalkylated amphetamine derivatives, the research group also showed the structure-activity relationships of a number of N-monoalkylated phenethylamines [33]. The increase in locomotor activity was tested (mice, i.p. administration). As Table 4 shows, compounds 5 and 41-47 do not cause increased locomotion compared to amphetamine. An explanation for this should be provided by the following fact: While compounds with an amphetamine structure (i.e. phenethylamine with an additional α-methyl group) are fairly resistant to the enzyme monoamine oxidase (MAO), simple phenethylamines are very easily oxidized by this enzyme and thus inactivated (see excursus amine oxidases ). The results reflected this, and the idea arose that this bio-inactivation could be counteracted with the help of the inhibition of this enzyme. For this purpose, mice were first administered the MAO inhibitor iproniazid (first portion 20 hours, second portion 2 hours before administration of the test substances). The administration of the two substances tested, phenethylamine (5) and N-methylphenethylamine (41), then caused a marked increase in locomotor activity. This result supports the thesis of bioinactivation of simple phenethylamine compounds.
Compounds 42-44 had already been investigated for a few pharmacological properties years earlier, in 1943 [50]. In the dog, 42 and # 3 were able to produce a very slight increase in blood pressure compared to amphetamine, and their toxicity was four to five times lower than that of amphetamine (rabbit, iv): substance 44 showed no influence on blood pressure and one two to three times lower toxicity than amphetamine.
