1. 2-phenethylamine

The 2-phenethylamine (1), also known as β-phenethylamine, phenethylamine or PEA, represents the basic structure of the compounds shown in this book. When researching chemical or natural substances that have this substructure, one arrives at
to an enormous variety of substances. Representatives from natural substances in the animal and plant world, as well as from agrochemistry or medicines, and even endogenous substances have this central 2-phenethylamine substructure (see also excursus on natural substances).
The unsubstituted phenethylamine (1) is an alkaloid that is found in both the plant and animal kingdoms. Probably the most well-known representatives here are cocoa or chocolate.
It is also worth mentioning that tigers (Panthera tigris) excrete phenethylamine (1) in their urine to mark their territory [1, 2]. However, phenethylamine (1) was also found in the urine of leopards [3]; therefore phenethylamine (1) alone cannot be used to mark territories. The occurrence of phenethylamine (1) in the human body is also of importance. It is called a biogenic amine because it is produced by decarboxylation of the natural amino acid L-phenylalanine (2a) in the organism.



According to the Beilstein CrossFire® database, phenethylamine (1) was first chemically produced in 1875 by the researchers Colombo and Spica [4]. In 1910 it could be isolated from rotten meat (putrescence), and then its activity on blood pressure was determined (summarized in [5]). It was examined intensively by the two important researchers Barger and Dal in 1910 together with a large number of other amines in a comparative study on the influence on blood pressure in cats [5]. In the case of IV administration, it is able to increase this significantly.
Another important study was carried out in 1938: Phenethylamine (1) was tested for its pharmacological properties together with amphetamine and some N-monoalkylated amphetamine derivatives [6] (see also Chapter 3.1.1.2). It turned out that, unlike amphetamine, phenethylamine (1) is unable to wake anesthetized mice. When the effects in humans were investigated, it was ascertained that phenethylamine (1) did not have any amphetamine-like effects. Shulgin leads in the standard work PiHKAL p.o. Test doses of up to 1600 mg phenethylamine (1) in humans, none of which were able to develop any effect either [7]. This is contradicted by information that was circulating on the Internet: Allegedly, dosages should be im
