From the very beginnings to postmodernism

When the first fragments of organic molecules allegedly emerged from the primordial soup through "thunder and lightning", these pieces went through an evolutionary process - after innumerable cycles, what belonged together accumulated, and useful things were soon built into the developing organisms and used. Unusable things were eliminated and fell by the wayside. The inorganic flowed into the organic without any fixable limit, the inanimate into the animate. A problem that catapults us to the beginnings of being. “All life is problem-solving,” wrote the philosopher Karl Popper. The all-important key is communication, the ability to send and receive signals. And for the first life in the rudimentary form, the molecules that had just emerged were the solution.

The reason why these PEA motifs - and not aliphatic amino acids (such as valine) - occur in nature, especially in biologically active molecules, and thus represent the basis for manifold variations, has been outlined above.
In fact, nature often builds with these aromatic scaffolds, which are not limited to PEA. There are other widespread privileged structures such as tryptophan and the resulting serotonin with its derivatives. For conceptual reasons, the focus in this work remains on the PEA.
In the course of evolution, only the most capable molecules were used for the extremely important communication between cells, precisely those whose language could be both spoken and understood. Including representatives of the PEA. These were so auspicious that evolution also entrusted them with communication in mammals over the course of millions of years. Step by step they conquered the planet and developed an increasingly sophisticated system, until the last stage for the time being, awareness arose: Homo sapiens - the rational person - thinks, communicates, interacts, formulates ideas and still lives with his ancient messengers (substances) . They transmit information impulses from synapse to synapse. Dopamine and norepinephrine as well as some other neurotransmitters - in dosed amounts in the right place and at the right time - are not only the keys to the “receptor lock”, but also to happiness and emotional and physical well-being.
The example described on the basis of humans is also valid in other organisms from flora and fauna. Is it therefore amazing to find other, unknown and “exotic” PEAs in our environment? They are possibly solutions to another problem, the original question of which one no longer knows or can no longer clarify today.
What is certain is that some of these building blocks are extremely important to us. Some even interact with our thinking organ and have probably had a major influence on our development. Plants containing psychedelic agents have been used and revered for millennia. They promoted cults, acted as catalysts and helped to interpret the incomprehensible mystical. Cult became religion.
With the advancement of knowledge and methods, mankind was not only able to use natural resources, but also developed their own derivatives.
The stimulating natural substance ephedrine (Chapter 3.5) became the potent synthetic stimulant methamphetamine (Chapter 3.1.1.1), and the naturally occurring psychedelil kum mescaline (Chapter 8.4.1) became the synthetic, relatively potent psyche-
