The general structural formulas 46 and 47 (including substitutions on aromatic compounds) allow a large number of new, previously unknown compounds which could have interesting pharmacological profiles of action. Perhaps a fast-acting antidepressant could emerge that, in higher doses, is non-dissociative and has a greater therapeutic range.

2-Phenylpiperidine (48) has been described as a synthetic intermediate [56]. Compounds 49-51 have been studied and prepared among a variety of substances for finding an antagonizing agent of methamphetamine [57]. In a locomotion study (mice, i.p), Van der Schoot et al. Showed that compound 49 increased motor activity only slightly relative to amphetamine [58].


Ritalin: Philipp and Marguerite

As early as 1844, the German doctor Heinrich Hoffmann described and illustrated the story of a hyperactive child. The resulting figure of “Fidgety Philipp” in the book “Der Struwwelpeter” (Fig. 2) is still known today in the German-speaking world as a synonym for attention deficit / hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). A hundred years later, in 1944, the chemist Leandro Panizzon synthesized methylphenidate (52) for the first time, which he and Hartmann patented at Ciba in 1950 [59]. The first pharmacological test showed stimulatory properties. The self-experiments customary at the time hardly impressed Panizzon. His wife Marguerite, however, valued the product as a pick-me-up, and from her nickname - Rita - the name of the product, Ritalin, came onto the market in Switzerland and Germany in 1954 (Figs. 3 and 4) [60, 61].



Methylphenidate (52; for stereochemistry see structures 52a-d) was initially prescribed for the treatment of chronic fatigue, depression, psychosis, and narcolepsy (Figs. 3 and 4). In 1960 another marketing took place under the name Ritonic, a mixture of methylphenidate, hormones and vitamins. Ritonic should be a means of boosting mood and maintaining vitality (62). In the 1960s, research focused on the treatment of hyperkinetic syndrome (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder; ADHD), and Ritalin was eventually approved for this treatment. Over 5000 scientific articles on "Ritalin / Methylphenidate" have been listed in the Pubmed database since the beginning. While some are concerned about the rapid increase in Ritalin prescriptions, others say that only a small fraction of those with ADHD®
