Psychostimulant, it shows an inhibition of the resumption of DA and releases it more intensely. It is also a substrate of the SERT and also releases 5-HT. The analogous 4-methylaminorex (49) was also developed in the 1960s (Chapter 3.12.3). 4-methylaminorex (49) is a potent psychostimulant; it is able to increase the extracellular dopamine and serotonin concentrations. It never reached the pharmaceutical market, but it is still offered on the black market today under names such as "U4Euh" (English pronounced: Euphoria) or 4-MAX. Here, too, there is initial evidence that taking it increases the risk of fatal pulmonary hypertension.



Most of the investigations within the phenylalkylazacycloalkanes have been carried out on piperidines, piperazines and cyclohexane derivatives. By shifting the nitrogen in a piperidine ring relative to the aryl part, very different active ingredients are obtained, some of which interact with very different targets.

Ritalin (50, Chapter 3.12.4.1), patented in 1950, proved in initial studies to be a stimulant that was marketed for the treatment of chronic fatigue, depression and narcolepsy, among other things. In the 1960s, research focused on the treatment of hyperkinetic syndrome, which eventually led to the use of Ritalin (50) to treat ADHD. To date, ADHD is the main official indication for Ritalin (50), with a considerable proportion of Ritalin (50) being abused as a stimulant by adults. Ritalin (50) inhibits the reuptake of DA and NE.

Deoxypipradrol (51) shows pronounced stimulation in animals and humans, and also pipradrol (52) and the analogue 53 proved to be strong stimulants. ß- or 3-pipradrol (54) seems to have similar effects as pipradrol (52). The γ- or 4-pipradrol (55) also bears the name Frenquel or azacyclonol. It exhibits different properties and, as a dopamine antagonist, has an antipsychotic effect. The pethidines (56), prodines (57; inverse esters of pethidines) and the fentanyls (58) have an additional function in the 4-position of the
