Indications for MAOIs

MAOIs are administered therapeutically to slow down the breakdown of natural neurotransmitters. The first MAOI, iproniazid (9) was actually an anti-tuberculosis drug. When the clinical trials showed a clear lightening of mood and increased drive in the patients, use as an antidepressant was an obvious choice. It is assumed that there is generally a serotonin and norepinephrine deficiency in depression [17], which can be effectively counteracted by inhibiting the MAO. Since most tricyclic antidepressants induce pronounced sedation, MAO inhibitors represent a therapeutic alternative. Apart from the side effects and interactions that will be discussed below, MAO inhibitors can even be used with therapy-resistant depression [17]. .
There is also an acute deficiency of neurotransmitters, namely dopamine, in patients with Parkinson's disease. The MAO-B inhibitor selegiline (14) is still considered the “gold standard” and is administered as an additional medication to the dopamine prodrug L-Dopa (see also Section 7.5.1). Wherever and whenever the MAO works, H2O2 is produced. And whenever an amine is prevented from being broken down by the MAO (regardless of whether it is allosteric, orthosteric, reversible or irreversible), this can be presented as a neuroprotective side effect, especially with drugs for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases [18].


Unwanted and wanted interactions

The irreversible enzyme inhibition itself seems to be less of a problem, since the enzymes are regenerated within a few days. Rather, the problem with MAO inhibitors is that - as already mentioned at the beginning - many biogenic amines from food are also broken down by the MAO. As long as the MAO is performing its function, it is not noticeable which pharmacological properties the food ingredients can have. In the case of complete MAO inhibition and the ingestion of biogenic amines, the most common interaction is a sometimes life-threatening rise in blood pressure, a so-called hypertensive crisis. The most prominent of these “bad” biogenic amines is tyramine. Tyramine is the decarboxylation product of the amino acid tyrosine, which is mainly found in fermented, protein-rich food: salami, wine, beer, soy sauce, yeast extract, chocolate and of course cheese (Greek: ?????, pronounced tyros = cheese, what the Derive names tyrosine and tyramine). Fish products, liver and some legumes should also be avoided [19]. Since cheese is the most prominent source of tyramine, if there is a hypertensive crisis due to the combination with food during treatment with MAOIs and for up to two weeks afterwards, then one speaks of the tyramine or "cheese" effect. All substances that lead to increased neurotransmitter concentrations, such as stimulants or even simple mucosal decongestants or asthma drugs, in combination with MAO inhibitors, can trigger threatening hypertensive crises. Since most MAOIs can also inhibit other amine oxidases, the metabolism can
