This benzene ring has a planar conformation, the bond arrangements of which are far from the tetrahedral angle (120 °), but the equivalent, symmetrical hexagonal arrangement with a sp’-I hybridization in the henyl ring and dividing
from orbitals to mesomerism advantages that are greater than the sum of the individual double bonds. The "smearing" and the use of electrons, circulating and sharing are important attributes. Here, sharing is also communicating, a type of communication in which atoms no longer stage themselves independently, but act and react in relation to the neighboring atom. They organize themselves among themselves and influence each other interactively because each substituent has a directing function on all subsequent substituents. The mesomeric boundary structures and the "folding around" of the electron pairs testify to this fact. This sp2 hybridization increases
the electron density, and it offers new possibilities compared to the aliphatic cyclohexane.
opportunities for chemical reactions. In contrast to the bulky frameworks of the cyeloalkanes with their van der Waals interactions, the planar aromatic rings can “nestle one on top of the other”, overlay one another; One speaks of π-π stacking. This relatively strong interaction may also lead to similar things being deposited and thus finding together what belongs together in order to increase the chance for new things.




It is even more advantageous if a potentially hydrophilic tail is attached to the lipophilic head with the C2 chain in between (NH2 group). The molecule remains small and compact, but theoretically offers space for innumerable variations. It is, to a certain extent, dissolved in various media such as fat and water. These two parts can - depending on the medium - serve alternately as anchor points. And the short chain may give it just the right amount of flexibility. The protonatable nitrogen adds a further ambivalent character. His amphoteric character not only allows him to take on both roles; 2-Phenethylamine can also mediate between the two opposites, for example it can link lipophilic regions and hydrophilic regions to one another on a receptor and thus change the spatial structure.
