The compounds of type 74 have an additional phenyl ring in position 4 (R = H, methyl, ethyl, isopropyl). Such 4,4-diphenylpiperidines were mentioned in a patent in 1977 and were originally intended to serve as highly efficient CNS stimulants [101]. According to the patent holders, a deep dose is sufficient to achieve increased alertness and vigilance over a longer period of time when administered orally or parenterally. These effects are not accompanied by restlessness or motor stimulation. For example, the compound with R = isopropyl at a dose of 5 mg / kg was able to increase the locomotion of mice by 20%, with amphetamine increasing this by 100% at the same dose. The blood pressure was not affected by the new substances. Treatment of depression, tiredness, dementia and obesity were mentioned as areas of application. According to the authors, no habituation or tolerance was observed; Mice, rats or dogs showed the same reactions over a longer period of time at the same dose.
Compounds of type 74 were later given names such as medipine (R = methyl), prodipine (R = i-propyl) or budipine (75) (R = t-butyl). The clinical developments with the first two substances have been discontinued. Budipin (75), however, is still used today as a centrally acting agent against Parkinson's disease [102]. Its effective approach takes place via the binding resp. Blocking of the NMDA and sigma receptors [103, 104]. The dopaminergic neurotransmission does not seem to be involved. The compound selegiline, which is also used for the symptomatic control of Parkinson's disease, works by increasing the extracellular dopamine, see Chapter 3.2.1 and excursus amine oxidases.

Gerlach et al. introduced trialkylsilyl groups in compounds of type 74 on the nitrogen (instead of R = alkyl, R = trialkylsilyl) and hoped to achieve a higher concentration in the CNS through the greatly increased lipophilicity [105]. The silyl compounds showed roughly the same in vivo effects (neurotransmitter concentrations) as were achieved with budipine (75). The discovery of biologically active organosilicon compounds (silatrans) by Voronkov [106] in 1966 prompted Stasch et al., the
