determined values match. Nagai (1844-1929) was a notable chemist and pharmacologist known for his studies on ephedrine. According to Ogata, Nagai described in his studies as early as 1893 the chemical reduction of ephedrine to "deoxyephedrine", i.e. (+) - S-methamphetamine (2a). Since this article [5], written in old Japanese, does not list any chemical structures, it was not included in databases such as SciFinder® or Fire ”. (At that time, the chemical structures were also not yet known; and it was not until 1864, around 20 years earlier, that structural formulas for organic substances began to be drawn up and, where known, to be used.) There is also the assumption that Schmidt then used the Was not familiar with Nagai's article.
According to these data, Professor Nagai must have been the first person to describe the synthesis of methamphetamine (2) in 1893, even if, from a synthetic and methodological point of view, he did not know which chemical structure he had in his hands after carrying out the experiment. Only the comparison by Ogata in 1919 confirmed retrospectively which substance Nagai was.
Further breakdown of the history of methamphetamine (2) proves difficult. The patent search provides some documents on methamphetamine (2), and the Termmler works are named as the owner of the patents from the end of the 1930s (among others granted by the German Reich Patent Office) to the beginning of the 1950s (e.g. [6- 9]).
The work of Fritz Hauschild also plays a role: from 1937 he worked for the Temmler factory for several years [10] and carried out and extensively documented the first pharmacological tests with methamphetamine (2) on animals [11, 12]. Jacobsen, Wollstein and Christensen also made significant contributions to research into methamphetamine (2): They tested the substance together with other N-alkyl-substituted phenylalkylamines in a large-scale clinical study (see Section 3.1.1.2).



Fig. 1. Evidence of the chemical structure of ephedrine by Ernst Schmidt in 1914 [2]: Through reductive removal of the HO group and subsequent retention of a chiral substance, only structure C could correspond to ephedrine.
