ben, tyrosine (12a) can be decarboxylated as well as hydroxylated on the aromatic. It is therefore a precursor of tyramine (23), dopamine (29), norepinephrine (31) and epinephrine (32).

Tyramine (see Chapter 6.3.1) As a decarboxylation product
from tyrosine (12a) 'tyramine (23) comes in many vegetable products
and animal foods: the most prominent representative
ter is also the namesake: cheese (Greek tvgog, pronounced 4-
ros, dt .: cheese), chocolate, beer, red wine, salami, soy products,
Yeast extract, avocados and many more. The biogenic amine tyramine (23) is transported into the interior of the cell by the norepinephrine transporter (NET), where it is quickly broken down by the MAO and therefore has almost no effect on humans. In combination with MAO inhibitors, it acts as an indirect sympathomimetic and thus sets in
the periphery releases norepinephrine, which can lead to severe headaches or even a life-threatening increase in blood pressure (see also excursus amine oxidases). One speaks of the "cheese effect". 'Tyramine (23) is also an endogenous ligand on the trace amine receptor (TAAR). In insects it is considered a messenger substance in the nervous system.

Leptodactyline (24, see chapter 6.2.3.3)
was identified in extracts from fresh or dried amphibian skins of over 140 species (no bufonids). Leptodactylidae is a common family of the frogs (Anura). This zwitterionic phenethylamine acts as a
Muscle relaxant at the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor and is not available orally.
Octopamine (25, see Chapter 6.3.1) was isolated in the salivary glands of octopuses. It acts as a neurotransmitter and modulator in the nervous system of insects, spiders, snails and crustaceans. Because of its sympathomimetic effects, it is also touted as a diet product on the Internet. Synephrine (26, see Chapter 6.3.1) is found naturally in various plants, above all in citrus species, and especially in the bitter orange (Citrus aurantium). A number of entries on the Internet advertise synephrine (26), similar to ephedrine, as a performance-enhancing and fat-burning agent. It acts as an α-sympathomimetic and as a ß3 agonist [7, 8]. Hordenine (27, see Chapter 6.3.1) occurs in various plants. Similar to ephdrine and tyramine (23), it has an antihypertensive effect. It acts as a feeding inhibitor in grasshoppers [52].

Chloramphenicol (28) is an antibiotic that has been used and widely used since the 1950s. It was isolated from the bacterium Streptomyces venezuelae and is only found nowadays because of its side effects (possible bone marrow depression)
