Kline and French (SKF). Fred Nabenhauer developed the free base of Amphera min (1) in volatile form as an inhaler for SKF. In 1933 the amphetamines inhaler was advertised as a "decongestant". It was the same substance as Gordon Alles, who only patented the salt forms. The invention was made independently, as SKF pointed out. After a patent dispute, everything was awarded 5 percent royalties (royalties) on the sale of Benzedrine® salts. From then on, SKF and Everything worked together.

The scientific literature became an arena for advertising, 'SKF sponsored studies that proved its effectiveness and should open up new areas of application. The integration of SKF management with everything and its network progressed: Nathanson conducted placebo-controlled studies with 10 mg amphetamine (1), and Prinzmetall and Bloomberg published their study of amphetamine-treated narcolepsy patients in 1935 [9]. Based on the results of the latter study, neurologists and psychiatrists took notice and contacted SKF for amphetamine samples. In return, they delivered results. Before SKF was going to file for approval with the American Medical Association (AMA), more data had to be generated, which would later open up better advertising and sales opportunities.

SKF-sponsored studies on indications such as dyswmenorrhea (pain and other ailments that occur with the menstrual cycle) or hay fever, which SKF saw as a rewarding market, were negative and remained unpublished. Nevertheless one looked further. The substance has been implicated in CNS disorders, and in 1936 the psychiatrist Abraham Myerson started research on the effects of amphetamine (1) on the mood of individuals. He came to the conclusion that in certain neurotic patients the administration of amphetamine (1) did not have a healing effect, but was "definitely improving". Myerson, who was a well-respected figure in the US and, among other things, the author of various books (The nervous housewife), was so enthusiastic about amphetamine (1) that he and SKF found a niche for it in the psychiatric drug market. Time Magazine published its “positive results” in September 1936 [10] on the “very remarkable influence” of amphetamines in depressed and suicidal people and went on to write: “Benzedrine also has very interesting and favorable results in a good many of those normal and quasi-normal (such as hangover) states where the individual has not had sufficient rest or is depressed in the morning. "a)

But Myerson was far from the only amphetamine enthusiast; Over sixty neuroscientists were working on clinical trials in 1936 and eager to test the substance for mental abilities. Alles Freund Nathanson reported that 80 percent of his 40 depressed patients experienced an improvement and no longer struggled with chronic fatigue, their feelings of exhaustion subsided and a general feeling of well-being set in. Eighty employees of the clinic who took amphetamine (1) as a "control group" also experienced such a lift in mood, up to euphoria. In 1937, SKF entered the psychiatric market with an 'application using amphetamines primarily to improve mood. To this end, SKF started another round of clinical trials, the essence of which can be summarized as follows: People with mild depression appeared to benefit from talk therapy supportive therapy, while it showed up in treatment



a) "Benzedrine also shows very interesting and beneficial results in a number of normal and quasi-normal conditions (such as hangovers) where the person has not been able to rest enough or is depressed in the morning."
