Histamine and dopamine receptors decrease. In 1955 Geigy made Imipramin (15) available to the Swiss psychiatrist Roland Kuhn. He administered imipramine (15) to schizophrenic patients, but without any significant improvement. Kuhn’s efforts to carry out the examinations thoroughly were rewarded: In contrast, patients with severe depression showed a clear ver. improvement; He published his observations in 1958 and summarized: “While in a number of instances, neurotic, schizophrenic or other depressions were also benefited by the drug, particularly when used in combination with chlorpromazine, electroshock or psychotherapy, it is concluded that imipramine hydrochloride is primarily indicated and effective in the treatment of endogenous depression ”a) [24]. Imipramine (15, see also Chapter 3.15) was on the market in 1958 and was considered the “gold standard” for the treatment of depression until it was replaced by the SRI (= Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors) in the early 1980s. In the course of the success story of imipramine (15), which is regarded as the prototype of this tricyclic substance class, several other tricyclic antidepressants came onto the market in the years and decades that followed.

On the one hand, this basic structure was creatively changed again and again and obviously with success with the intention of minimizing side effects and optimizing a certain action profile. On the other hand, financial interests were also at the forefront, as loopholes in patent law were exploited to launch "me-too" products that were not very innovative. Shown are active ingredients of this class of substances, tri- and later tetracyclic compounds that have been approved



Fig. 4. I: Advertising for imipramine (Tofranil®), 1962. r: Expressive imagery in advertising for Tofranil® [25].



a) “Although in numerous cases neurotic, schizophrenic or other depressions were also positively influenced by the substance, especially in combination with chlorpromazine, electric shock or psychotherapy, it has been concluded that imipramine hydrochloride is primarily indicated in the treatment of endogenous depression is effective. "
