ascribed specific analeptic efficacy. The inventors stated a mild central excitation with a remarkably little influence on the blood circulation and mentioned the advantageous use compared to amphetamine in patients with high blood pressure. In the clinical studies carried out, these compounds generally showed an increase in spontaneous activity and the level of performance and, according to the inventors, they were "of excellent tolerability" and "showed no side effects".
However, apart from fencamfamin (44), none of these substances has made its way through. The potential for abuse could be a reason, as some parallels to amphetamine and cocaine can be seen in the effect. Properties that are actually predestined for distribution on the black market. It is also astonishing that not a large number of chemical modifications have been tested (on the side of the aromatic or on the side of the norbornane skeleton), be it in underground laboratories or in pharmaceutical research institutes, in order to obtain pharmacologically valuable compounds. Compounds that have a positive effect on neurotransmission and, as already mentioned, show little influence on blood pressure, would be potential antidepressants or agents that counteract the symptoms of Parkinson's disease.

Camfetamine (46) has recently been sold through obscure online shops for the purpose of “legal intoxication” [51]. Interestingly, substances of type 47 also showed significant CNS activity [49]. R and R ’stand for hydrogen and lower alkyl radicals. In particular, the methyl, ethyl, dimethyl and methyl ethyl amines were found to be behavioral stimulants (locomotion, stereotypical behavior, sniffing, licking, nibbling, etc.). These substances were developed as potential analgesics [49].



Compound 48 was developed in the 1960s and named EXP-561 [50]. Their pharmacological properties as inhibitors of the reuptake of dopamine, serotonin and norepinephrine make them potentially suitable for use as an antidepressant. However, the development into a marketable product did not succeed. In contrast to Ämpberune, 48 is unable to release monoamines and in this respect is more similar to cocaine, which also functions as a reuptake inhibitor of monoamines [50].
