From accidental discovery to bestseller - a success story without a happy ending


The consultation of various time tables on the history of methamphetamine (2) showed that there are some contradictions. The two databases SciFinder® and Beilstein XFire® were used to determine the overall course. The earliest literature listing methamphetamine (2) is, according to XFire®, the work by Ernst Schmidt from 1914 [2]. In his work on ephedrine and pseudoephedrine, the am phar. pharmaceutical-chemical institute of the University of Marburg working researchers in a very detailed treatise the evidence for the chemical structure of ephedrine. Furthermore, he also deduces how the spatial arrangement (stereochemistry) of the ephedrine and pseudoephedrine (see also Chapter 3.5) should look like. The empirical formula C10H15NO, i.e. the relative number of chemical elements present, was already known from combustion experiments and elemental analysis; their arrangement, however, could only be guessed at. From oxidative degradation (formation of benzaldehyde) it was known that the HO group must be in the benzyl position (see structure C, Fig. 1). At the same time it was known that 'amino alcohols with a geminal' arrangement are generally not stable (structure A). By a dismantling respectively. removing the HO group in ephedrine gave a base that was still optically active (structure 2a). In doing so, he proved that the (already known) methylamino group can only have a single position in the ephedrine molecule. If this were as shown in structure B, the removal of the HO group should have resulted in an achiral substance. Ephedrine therefore had to have structure C. With this demonstration, Schmidt had produced methamphetamine (2) (Fig. 1) - with no intention of developing a physiologically active substance. It not only provided the melting points of the pure crystalline HCl salt and other salts, but also the value of the optical rotation. Later measurements of these values showed that Schmidt already had extremely pure S - (+) - methamphetamine hydrochloride at that time.
Five years later, in 1919, the Japanese scientist Akira Ogata published his studies on the structure elucidation of ephedrine [3], in which he presented no deviation from the structure of ephedrine proposed by Schmidt, but rather further evidence for the structure of ephedtine: He obtained racemic methamphetamine (2) via a sodium-assisted reduction of the condensation product of 2-phenylpropanone and methylamine. By separating the two enantiomers (with the help of recrystallization of the tartrate salt) and subsequent conversion into the HCl salt, he finally obtained a substance that gave comparable values for the melting point and the optical rotation, as presented by Schmidt in 1914 [2].
In the Chemical Abstracts of 1920 [4] on the work of Ogata [3], in the given table for the melting points and for the optical rotation in the column “Smidf” (meaning the scientist E. Schmidt) those obtained by Schmidt were given Values simply under “beat.” [4] Whether this was due to a lack of ability to translate Schmidt's German manuscript or whether Ogata's own work should be highlighted is not important that made crystalline methamphetamine HCl (2).
In the work of Ogata (1919) one learns that the physical properties of "deoxyephedrine" (= (+) - S-methamphetamine (2a)) compare well with those of Nagayoshi Nagai [5]
