Excursus:
Natural substances with a basic phenethylamine structure


Diffuse definitions

Natural substances are chemical substances that are obtained from living or inanimate nature. The term nature and its social interpretation is related to historical epochs and fills entire books. The dictionary defines nature as follows [1]: “The totality of organic and inorganic phenomena that exist or develop without human intervention. Matter, substance, matter in all manifestations.”
    According to this definition, crude oil is just as much a natural substance as the delicate rose scent components or snake venom. The definition is already vague at this level. The definition of the term "alkaloids" is even more problematic. For example, it uses attributes such as “naturally occurring, not commonly distributed compounds containing one or more nitrogen atoms in the molecule” [2]. The group owes its name, derived from “alkaline-like” [2], to the basic nature of many of its representatives. In other definitions, only plant ingredients are even referred to as alkaloids. There are more exceptions than rules: for example, animal ingredients, non-basic alkaloids with an acid amide structure, quaternary ammonium compounds, lactams and N-oxide derivatives are also listed as alkaloids. Differentiation from other N-containing natural substances is difficult: biogenic amines, pyrazines, pterins, vitamins and their derivatives, as well as amino sugars and antibiotics are generally not counted among the alkaloids. Finally, special cases determine the classifications, which are ultimately arbitrary and, depending on the author and the state of research, more or less broad.
   The number of alkaloids described to date is over 12,000 [2]. Alkaloids are often biologically active, which has been used for thousands of years. As is the case with opium, which is one of the oldest medicines [2], although here the borderline between stimulants and stimulants is fluid. Coca, tea, cocoa and tobacco have been used as stimulants since prehistoric times [2].
   Whether arrow poison or medicine, mixtures of active ingredients from plants, literally "drugs", were usually used. The term "drug" as a designation for pharmaceutically active substances comes etymologically from the Dutch (drog, dt.: dry). The dictionary defines it as follows: "Plant or animal substance preserved by drying, which is used as a medicine, spice and for technical purposes" [1].  

This excursus deals with substances that were created without human influence and that contain a phenethylamine structure. Many other possible connections that arise through the metabolism in humans, animals or plants have so far been little or not at all researched. The focus is on substances from nature that have an aromatic ring.
