3.13. Benzannelated cycloalkylamines



In order to understand how one has to imagine the spatial arrangement of amphetamines (see Chapter 2) during the development of effects in the body, a number of studies were recorded. With the aim of mimicking the active conformer (or one of them) of amphetamine, structurally related compounds have been given fewer degrees of freedom. For this purpose, sterically rigid analogues of amphetamine were synthesized and examined for their various biological effects. If such a conformationally “frozen” structure were to develop a more pronounced effect in one of the tests, this could possibly imitate an active conformation of the parent substance. In the vast majority of cases, however, these rigid amphetamine analogues showed no improvement in terms of CNS activity (see, for example, locomotion studies by Van der Schoot et al. [1] and discrimination study by Glennon et al. [2]), they behaved in the tests performed as less active. The following food for thought could help to better understand this issue.

Basically, you cannot measure a system without influencing it. In this case, this means only neglecting a (essential) issue or introducing new atomic groups, or fixing such groups can indirectly provide vague information about a possible active conformation. For example, software-supported modeling programs are used that are used to “calculate” molecules. It is hoped that this will be able to show, on the one hand, how these are present in the energetically most favorable conformation and, on the other hand, how they interact with a receptor, enzyme or transporter, for example. The conformer with the lowest calculated energy is a mixed state of innumerable possibilities in which the molecule can exist. However, this does not necessarily have to correspond to the active conformation. The existence of the conformations resembles a statistical distribution, so that within the existing chemical compound there are molecules with a very low energy as well as with a very high energy. The structures obtained with the help of computer programs are based on calculations; one tries to include factors such as pH value, solvation medium, energy difference from the effort required to change the conformation and ligand-target binding. Another approach to elucidating the possible spatial structure of a connection in or during its state interacting with a target is the physical method of X-ray structure analysis. This is how you measure crystals of the substance itself or of the substrate on the target. In X-ray structure analysis, as in NMR measurements for spatial structure elucidation, it is ignored that these methods represent images that have not been recorded in the corresponding physiological medium (for the flexibility of phenethylamines and amphetamine see, for example, [3] or [4 ]).
