If a substance is rapidly converted into inactive metabolites, there is the possibility of blocking the metabolically important point with a fluorine atom. Parahydroxylation on aromatics or ß- or ω-hydroxylation on side chains are often metabolizations that take place quickly and can thus be prevented. Then another metabolic pathway has to be chosen and the effect can be prolonged, intensified or even completely changed because new active metabolites can arise that are affine to a different target. Most drugs that work in this way only have one fluorine atom - that is where it matters most.
Furthermore, the affinity to a certain target protein can change because, for example, a small lipophilic binding pocket is better filled. In addition, when H is replaced by F, certain H-donor properties of the ligand can be absent, which changes the selectivity profile or the increased electron density modifies the bonding. To bring about such changes, single F atoms are used less often, but rather whole CF3 groups are introduced, since they are often more effective for these purposes.
All of these points should be considered when using fluorine in medicinal chemistry. The above-mentioned multipolar interactions (C-F ··· C = O) and possibly also the H-acceptor properties can also have a decisive influence on the bond. In Ref. [6] detailed examples and the related chemistry are given.


Possible toxicity of organofluorine compounds

Adding a fluorine atom to a molecule, as described above, can have far-reaching consequences. What works with a positive medicinal chemical intention also works in the other, toxic direction. Fluorine compounds are also found among the strongest synthetic poisons (e.g. the irreversible cholinesterase inhibitors such as sarin and soman), and nature uses a fluorine atom to create a compound that is highly toxic for mammals and insects, fluoroacetic acid ( 1). The extreme toxicity of fluoroacetate (sodium salt of fluoroacetic acid) is based on the fact that acetate plays a decisive role in the organism, but the systems involved can no longer distinguish it from acetic acid and fluoroacetic acid [8]. In the organism, fluoroacetic acid undergoes the same enzymatic transformation as acetic acid and forms fluoroacetyl-CoA with coenzyme A, which ultimately substitutes for acetyl-CoA in the tricarboxylic acid cycle. The resulting fluorine citrate interferes with the citric acid cycle so that it comes to a standstill (enzyme blockade).
