It is only marginally referred to here on a mind game! Which nF ee would the discovery of the stimulating effects of amphetamine (d) have taken years earlier - at the time of the first synthesis in 1887 [1] - on subsequent events in economy, society and politics (e.g. First World War?).
A statement from SKF about Rasmussen's results would undoubtedly have been interesting, as he puts the pharmaceutical industry active at the time, especially SKF, in a diffuse light.


2.2. Therapeutic use today

Despite the problem of addiction and abuse, amphetamines (9) are still considered to have therapeutic benefits today. For this purpose, sustained-release formulations such as Adderall XR® (extended release) or amide-bound forms (see Vyvanse®, Chapter 3.3, which release amphetamine (1) continuously, but less quickly) have been developed. Amphetamine (1) is primarily used to treat attention deficit Hyperactivity Syndrome (ADHD) and narcolepsy. The idea of retardation in Adderall® is based on the use of various amphetamine salts; the racemic sulfate and aspartate salt as well as enantiomerically pure sulfate and saccharate salt are used. The enantiomers are in the total ratio (+) - S-amphetamine (1a) to (-) - R-amphetamine (Ib) = 3: 1 present. These salts have different rapid absorption rates [17]. Furthermore, Adderall XR® uses the Microtrol® dosing system, which contains beads, the dissolve at different rates and thus release amphetamines (1) at different times.Despite these delay measures, Adderall XR® is being misused for other purposes. There are tons of anecdotal reports on the Internet about how students can learn better and truck drivers can drive longer with concentration. A scientific study with over 4000 students in the USA came to the conclusion that the use / abuse of amphetamine (e.g. Adderall®) is greater than that of methylphenidate (Ritalin®) [18]. For the chemical retardation of amphetamine: also find lisdexamfetamine in chapter 3.3.



Amphetamine is still used today in the military context [45]. It has been known since 1966 at the latest that amphetamine (1) is more suitable for restoring performance in tired individuals than for increasing performance compared to normal individuals [19]. This knowledge was of considerable importance, especially in the military. It contradicts the thesis that amphetamine consumption is exclusively harmful. It is probably due to this fact that in certain si-
