More detailed information on the market launch and development at the Temmler works is difficult to understand because the Temmier company no longer has any documentation on the development [13]. This is probably due to the fact that the company had its headquarters in Berlin during the Third Reich, but after the war it belonged to the Soviet occupation zone and was therefore expropriated. The Berlin-Cheyie, which emerged from the former Temmler works, did not respond to a request as to whether documents on the development of pervitin (methamphetamine) were still available [13]. But it is also conceivable that the documents fell into the hands of the occupying powers, since the material was of particular interest for warfare at that time.

Pieper's work Nazis on Speed [14] provides many historical approaches. Part of the following discussion therefore relies on his documentation.
The research project launched in Germany with the working title “Per-Vitin”, which contained studies on adrenaline, ephedrine and methamphetamine (2), produced Pervitin® (= methamphetamine), which, according to Pieper, was used in 1938 by the Temmler-Werke as a “wakefulness agent “Was brought onto the market (Fig. 2) [14]. “At the start of the new means, the company used intensive advertising through advertisements, doctor's letters, sales representative propaganda, etc.
Since there was no prescription requirement for Pervitin®, practically anyone was able to buy any amount of it in pharmacies ”[14]. According to Pieper, the originator of Nazis on Speed, sweets such as pralines containing Pervitin® were also on the market at that time. The fact that Pervitin® was freely sold for a certain period of time meant that people could convince themselves of the benefits and were thus “hooked”. In 1939, the Reichsärzteführer Conti made Pervitin® mandatory. The looming Second World War did not affect the rapid spread of methamphetamine (2), on the contrary!
Like Japan, Great Britain and the USA, the German army also seized the agent and, after a short trial period to students, distributed it to the fighting troops at the front [14]. Pervitin® was easy to use, the package read: “Day wakes take 1-2 tablets in the morning, night wakes take 1-2 tablets in the evening to prevent insomnia”, and caution was advised: “Use only on a case-by-case basis Case".
The wakefulness agent had useful “side effects”: In most people, methamphetamine (2) improves self-confidence in the short term and can temporarily restore mental and physical performance in exhausted individuals. Non-combat-relevant functions such as hunger, thirst and sleep are suppressed. The subjective well-being is improved, fear of death suppressed and the aggressiveness increased. A combination of qualities that seemed made for warriors. Under the influence of "Speed", the Nazis fought their Blitzkrieg in Poland and France. The book Nazis on Speed [14] describes how the mass distribution of Pervitin® came about on the “home front”. The pills contained 3mg methamphetamine (2) and grape sugar (Fig. 2)
But not only the soldiers used the desired properties of methamphetamine (2), according to the historian Doyle, Adolf Hitler also had methamphetamine (2) administered by the same doctor [15]. In addition to methamphetamine (2) for intravenous and oral administration, his unorthodox family doctor Theodor Morelldem hypochondriac Hitler also prescribed cocaine, testosterone, vitamins and a number of other "tonics". Doyle, drawing on the book The secret diaries of Hitler's doctor and various other literature sources, writes:
"... there's no doubt that he (Morell) gave intravenous glucose and Pervitin® to Hitler on any occasion when he needed a boost, and especially before his famous' rabble-rousing‘ speeches to assembled thousands of devotees "a). Doyle suspects that if Hitler hadn't been addicted to methamphetamine, it would have

a) "... There is no doubt that he (Morel)) administered glucose with Pervitin® intravenously on every occasion that Hitler needed a boost, especially before his famous inflammatory speeches in front of thousands of assembled supporters".
