2.4. Clandestine production of amphetamine

According to the UN Office against Drugs and Crime (UNC DC -), 185 million - around 3 percent of the world's population - have used illegal drugs in the past few years [39]. Of these, 38 million consumed amphetamine derivatives, including 8 million ecstasy (mainly MDMA; see Chapter 7.5.6). The UN estimates the global production of amphetamine (1) and methamphetamine (9) at 410 tons per year. Measured against the seizures (41 and 26 tons in 2000/2001) and the excavation of numerous underground laboratories (13 400 (!) In 2005 alone, 12 800 of which were methamphetamine and approx. 200 amphetamine laboratories) illicit drug use is stabilizing, albeit at a high level. The discovery of such clandestine laboratories has increased over the past two decades and shows a relative shift in production from amphetamine (1) to methamphetamine (see Chapter 3.1.1).



2.5. Amphetamine: a natural product?

In a publication in the journal Phytochemistry in 1998 Clement, Goff and Forbes proclaimed the discovery of amphetamine (1) in wild plants called Acasa rigidula, which defend themselves against insects and herbivores with the ingredients it contains [40]. Consumption of this plant, which is common in northwest Texas and Mexico, causes locomotion disorders (araxite). Using GC-MS, the researchers identified numerous compounds, including phenethylamines such as tyramine and hordenine, but also tryptamines and nicotine. In addition to these ingredients, they claim to have found amphetamine & (depending on the season up to 11.8ppm) and methamphetamine (9) (up to 12.4ppm). Until then, amphetamine (1) was thought to have been created by human hands. Amazingly, this extraordinary find met with little response. This information can therefore be viewed with caution, and the origin of the traces of amphetamine (1) can be speculated.
In the online forum “Ask Dr. Shulgin "[41] the old master of phenethylamine chemistry and author of PiHKAL and TiHKAL Alexander Shulgin said:
"There is certainly precedent for a drug which was originally man-made, to be discovered in a plant. N,N-Dimethytryptamine (DMT) was first synthesized by Manske, in Canada, in the 1930s. It was over twenty years later that it was discovered in a plant from South America. But such an event usually evokes considerable commentary. Here it seems that an exciting story is being ignored. Am I missing something? ”The study has not yet been repeated.



a) “For an anthropogenic active ingredient there is certainly the possibility of later being discovered in a plant. N, N-Dimethylıryptamine (DMT) was the first to be produced in 1930 by Manske from Canada. It was only discovered in a South American plant more than twenty years later. But such an event is usually accompanied by extensive explanations. Here it seems that a very interesting story is simply being ignored. Am I missing something? "
