Fig. 2. Simplified representation of the biosynthesis of phenethylamine (1) and the subsequent metabolism (see also "Biological origin of phenethylamine" in the excursus on natural substances).


It has been argued that too low brain phenethylamine concentrations could be a cause of depression [24]. To test the hypothesis that phenethylamine (1) modulates mood disorders, the concentration of phenylacetic acid (,, the main metabolite of phenethylamine (1), in the plasma and urine of depressed persons [24]. The concentrations were compared to healthy persons This suggested that low plasma and urinary phenylacetic acid concentrations could serve as a diagnosis of depression. They also showed that administration of the phenethylamine precursor L-phenylalanine (2a) had a positive effect on mood in 31 of 40 patients would.
In a further experiment, 10-60 mg phenethylamine (1) was administered orally daily for 20-50 weeks, with 10 mg selegiline being released at the same time in order to counteract the rapid breakdown of phenethylamine (1) by MAO [25]. In 12
of 14 patients, phenethylamine (1) showed an antidepressant effect. This supported the authors' hypothesis that deficient phenethylamine concentrations could be directly related to depression. The administered dose of phenethylamine (1) remained constant in the test subjects. This showed that, in contrast to amphetamine, there was no development of tolerance with phenethylamine (d). However, it remains to be added that the sole effect of selegiline has not been tested in a control group and that today selegiline is also used to treat depression in individual countries. This currently calls into question the informative value of the small-scale study.

Interestingly, the unnatural enantiomer D-phenylalanine (2b) also shows pharmacological effects. Antidepressant [26], but also analgesic [27] effects are ascribed to it. Which mechanism or which targets are involved is ultimately not clear. The enzyme carbopeptidase, which also breaks down endorphins, appears to be
