is held responsible for the stimulating effects. The function of the monoamine transporter is reversed by methamphetamine (2) (reverse transport), so that the extracellular concentrations of the monoamines are increased (in rats approximate ratios of the release of NE: DA = 1: 2, NE: 5HT = 1:60 definitely). The reuptake of monoamines into the cell interior is also inhibited. The monoamines finally cause an increased stimulation of the postsynaptic receptors.
The stereotypical behavior that occurs at higher doses is also attributed to DA. With even higher doses of methamphetamine (2), DA is released in the mesolimbic system, and there is an increased release of serotonin (5-HT) from the seretonergic neurons. The disturbance of perception and the psychotic behavior are ascribed to this fact. With high doses, especially after intravenous administration, the users report intense cheerfulness, euphoria, extreme alertness, a rapid flow of ideas and improved physical and psychological performance. Improved self-confidence and pleasant sexual stimulation are also reported [1]. In the male individual, ejaculation is delayed and the intensity of orgasm improved, which has earned methamphetamine (2) its popular reputation as a sex drug. On the other hand, with higher doses and more frequent use, users can no longer achieve orgasm and gradually lose interest in sexual activity. The following describes the subjective impressions of “users” [18]: “The first pleasant waves flood the body just a few seconds after being injected into the veins. Above all, the abdomen and genitals are literally exposed to an inevitably beautiful flood of pleasant feelings. | ...) When the flash slowly loses its intensity, and accompanied by a slight drowsiness gives way to a pleasant drive, the senses and perceptions are all very sharpened and pleasant. "

So much for the exhilaration. Landing often turns into a fall. The euphoria gives way to difficulty concentrating, nervousness and anxiety [1]. Pseudohallcinations and paranoia may occur after high doses. Re-administration can temporarily eliminate these unpleasant conditions, but since the high is less high, the crash inevitably occurs: a phase of exhaustion in which the user has more than a day; Spends light, restless sleep. The longer the binge lasts, the more likely it is to develop psychoses with real hallucinations, especially with high doses. This situation is often indistinguishable from a schizophrenic psychosis. In the following a few more lines from a "user" [18]. "The predisposition to mental illnesses and mental disorders are strongly promoted by amphetamines [...] above all, the paranoia favored by the hallucinations already mentioned. [...] a real sleep rank, which can last for a long time, makes the exiting feel more comfortable. Some of the users struggle with very severe depression and malaise while quitting. "


A possible role of trace amine-associated receptors ('TAAR') has only been discussed for a relatively short time. Various phenylalkylamines such as tyramine, octopamine, phenethylamine and also methamphetamine (2) and amphetamine bind to the trace amine receptor 1 (TAARI) [19]. The affinities of amphetamine and methamphetamine (2) were determined, which differed depending on the species, and amphetamine and methamphetamine (2) were characterized as full to partial agonists [19]. This interaction has a decisive influence on the dopamine transporter DAT) in the brain. Xie and Miller showed in 2009 that methamphetamine (2) TAAR-
