Final questions

Why does nature build such complex, astonishing scaffolding? For the medicinal chemist, reactions that are difficult - the establishment of defined stereocenters, multi-level hunts - just happen and lead to unimagined structural wealth. We humans have only been able to isolate mixtures, analyze substances and have been able to recreate the simpler ones for 100 years. Natural substances produced by total synthesis are actually plastics, but - although linguistically and content-wise different - are nevertheless considered natural substances. Nature, with its complex materials, has been practicing it for millennia, if not millions of years, trying and coincidentally creating something new. What we have today are the blossoms of this evolutionary development, the stunted and withered branches are no longer visible. Actually, we should be particularly interested in natural substances, because respect for living beings with their plant and animal ingredients would also be in the spirit of Homo sapiens. Who knows how many such exciting and healing substances went undiscovered because the species became extinct, and this was partly caused by humans themselves.
The question "Why are they there?" Is more of interest than a precise classification of these substances. Why does a cactus produce a substance that changes our perception? Why do we have receptors in our brain that interact with these unique ingredients? Or why did a herb grow that drives us? Hypotheses - from scientific to esoteric and also speculative, but well documented - fill entire books. And of course they reflect the worldview of the respective author. If some quote Darwin and consider the evolutionary protection against feeding as an advantage, others regard it as pure coincidence, and third parties see it as the tree of knowledge. A divine spark or a scientifically unexplainable type of communication that gives the plant an advantage when it enters into a symbiosis with the human species? The deliberate questioning - about the immeasurably creative creation that surrounds us, but also about the riddles of the “mystery of man” and his complex psyche - shows the fascination of the inexplicable. Questions that cannot be fully answered scientifically, questions that remain - questions for which we can find answers ourselves.


Literature

[1] Duden. Duden - Das Fremdwörterbuch. Dudenverlag: Mannheim, Leipzig, Wien, Zürich, 2001.
[2] R. Hänsel, H. Pertz. Pharmakognosie - Phytopharmazie. Springer Berlin, Heidelberg, 2007.
[3] K.M. Herrmann. Plant Cell 1995, 7, 907.
[4] A.R. Knaggs. Nat. Prod. Rep. 2001, 18, 334.
[5] J. Mann, E. D, Peselow, S. Snyderman, S. Gershon. Am. J. Psychiatry 1980, 1 37, 1611.
[6] G. A. Molnar, Z. Wagner, L. Marko, T. Ko Szegi, M. Mohas, B. Kocsis, Z. Matus, L. Wagner, M. Tamasko, I. Mazak, B. Laczy, J. Nagy, I. Wittmann. Kidney Int. 2005, 68, 2281.
