still to a little over 500, whereby the number in 2004 reached a maximum of 18,500 (!) and for 2005, slightly declining, still 13,400 were counted. This corresponds to a number of 36 excavated laboratories worldwide - every day, 95% of them in the USA [29].

Two synthetic routes are preferred to produce illicit methamphetamine (2). On the one hand the synthesis starting from 1-phenyl-2-propanone (P-2-P), which gives racemic methamphetamine (2) of lower potency, on the other hand the synthesis from ephedrine or pseudoephedrine is used. Birch reduction with liquid ammonia has been in vogue since the mid-1980s. To carry out this synthesis in a garage laboratory, the liquid ammonia is usually obtained from old refrigerators in which the ammonia was used as a coolant.
It is obvious the danger to the producers as well as to the environment, neighborhood and bystanders. The chemicals in methamphetamine production are not only toxic but also highly flammable. In the US, according to a study from 2002, one sixth of illegal laboratories were discovered because of explosions, fires or the escape of toxic gases. It is estimated in the USA that for every kilo of methamphetamine (2) produced there is five to six kilos of chemical waste [22].

The purity and price of methamphetamine (2) vary considerably and depend on various factors. As an example from the USA shows, the salary was halved after the trade in high-percentage, i.e. purer, methamphetamine (2) was punished more severely. The prices for methamphetamine (2) range between 20 and 120 US dollars, euros or Swiss francs per gram; Hundreds of dollars are charged for the same amount of the purer crystal meth. If you calculate consumption and price, a potential is achieved that by far exceeds that of a blockbuster drug. With a consumption of 300 tons and a price of 50 US dollars per gram, an annual turnover of 15 billion dollars is achieved. A considerable sum.

Last but not least, the meticulous work of Rasmussen is highly recommended, it provides a lot of historical information about amphetamine and methamphetamine [51]. The feature film Spun (director: Jonas Akerlund, 2004) deals with the production of "meth" in kitchen laboratories as well as the consumption, addiction problems and social behavior of addicts in a realistic manner and can definitely be recommended to interested readers. Furthermore, reference is made to the American television series Breaking Bad (director: Vince Gilligan, since 2007), which occasionally sheds light on meth production and the meth scene.

3.1.1.2. More N-alkylamphetamines

During the first investigations of amphetamine (1) at the beginning of the 1950s, the occasionally observed "strange" [31] side effects on well-being that some people valued were controversial, at least in the scientific reports. The reasons for this are, among other things, that the mention of the stimulating properties was deliberately omitted in the first publications
