Shamans, doctors and scientists have tried since ancient times to find a suitable means of treating the moody. Depending on the era, mixtures of plants, alcohol and opium were used. It would go beyond the scope of this excursus to give an overview of the antidepressant plants. Perhaps the best-known herbal representative is St. John's wort, the effectiveness of which has been systematically investigated [4]. A review article summarized in 2009 [5]: “St. John's wort superior to placebo and similar to antidepressants for major depression but with fewer side effects. "A)
Without any scientific knowledge, mineral water containing lithium was previously touted and used as a mood stabilizer. Which agent was really the first antidepressant can be discussed, since amphetamine and methamphetamine were also used to treat depression (see Chapters 2 and 3.1.1.1).
Therapies without substance intake - such as sleep deprivation, which is free and shows antidepressant effects on the next day in the majority of the mentally ill - are not dealt with here; more on this can be found in Ref. [6].



Lithium: a chance discovery helps manic-depressive people

Even before synthetic agents such as iproniazid (1) and isoniazid (2) reached patients, beverages containing lithium were already being used as medicinal products at the turn of the previous century. The consumption of lithium-containing water - Londonderry Litbia - which has been said to have healing and strengthening powers (Fig. 2), began in the northeastern United States, in Londonderry, where a natural source contains considerable amounts of lithium ions [7]. In 1929 another drink came on the market: BibLabel Lithiated Lemon-Lime Soda. A soft drink with added lithium citrate. The name of the lemonade was later changed to 7 Up. Mood-stabilizing properties were ascribed to it, especially after excessive alcohol consumption. 7 Up no longer contains lithium.
In the late 1940s, the Australian psychiatrist John Cade attempted to verify a hypothesis which - as we now know - was wrong [8], most likely independently of these praises and judgments. Cade believed that manic-depressive disorders were caused by a toxin found in the brain on the one hand and excreted in the urine on the other. He checked his suspicions by administering the urine of manic-depressive guinea pigs, which then died. In subsequent experiments, he examined some components of the utin and recognized that urea was lethal for his test animals. When experimenting with the poorly soluble uric acid, Cade tried various metal salts to overcome the solubility problems, and achieved the best results with lithium ions. The guinea pigs given the urine enriched with lithium calmed down. His observation was confirmed when he tested another lithium salt and found the same effects. As a result, Cade decided to treat the first manic-depressive patients with lithium. Despite the flaws in his toxin theory, his clinical trials were crowned with success. After he had cured the patients permanently, Cade published his case in 1949 in the Medical Journal of Australia, Lithium salts in the treatment of


a) "The real St. John's wort is superior to the placebo and proves to be equivalent to antidepressants for the treatment of clinical depression, but it shows fewer side effects."
