Access to this drug was also extremely easy, as it was not subject to a prescription requirement until the late 1940s. It should be noted, however, that some of the returnees from the Second World War continued to “consume the go-pills” and apparently contributed to the epidemic spread of amphetamines (1) to a not insignificant extent [15]. Civil society was infected, so to speak, from the field reports of the military personnel.
The controlled military use of amphetamine (1) is current to the present day [45]. Rasmussen estimates that at the end of World War II, two million amphetamine pills (10 mg each) were consumed every day [2], half of which was used for mild depression and half for weight control. This “off-label use” market evidently developed its own dynamic independently of SKF and was split up into small companies that marketed amphetamine (1) in such diet pills together with other active ingredients and placebo substances. The amphetamines inhaler remained freely available for sale until the late 1940s, according to Rasmussen. Other sources [15, 16] cite the free sale of the tablets until 1951 and of the inhaler until 1959. Thereafter, amphetamine (1) was generously prescribed for depression (see also excursus on antidepressants) and obesity (see also excursus on anorectics) (Fig. 2) and in 1967 reached the peak of 31 million prescriptions.
In the United States, three and a half billion tablets were produced in 1958, which rose to ten billion in 1970. The fact that at times, according to reference [15], 50-75 percent (l) of the amphetamine traded on the black market was diverted from legally produced sources is explosive. For a more detailed discussion of the later historical development of amphetamine, reference is made to the further references [2, 42-43].

Discussion

The side effects of stimulation and increased well-being that were not mentioned were actually central main effects right from the start. The fact that amphetamine (1) is a substance that already shows its stimulatory effect at normal high doses allows the conclusion that conscious action was taken. The need for additional energy and subjectively increased motivation can be determined in most people. From today's point of view, it is therefore not surprising that the amphetamines inhaler was first launched on the market as a remedy for nasal congestion, which gave rise to a dynamic of its own, which shortly afterwards resulted in a massive increase in the use and sales of amphetamines.
Rasmussen titled his publication Making the first Antidepressant a) [2]. After viewing the data, the fact that it was “done” first cannot be dismissed out of hand. Iproniazid (see there) usually bears the title of the "first antidepressant". Even in today's research environment of pharmaceutical companies, this path "drug looking for a disease" is often taken, not necessarily to the detriment of the patient. A new compound, active in vitro on the desired target, is used in humans to see what it really “does” in order to later find a possible indication. Nowadays, research is carried out more responsibly, and the authorities such as the powerful FDA apply strict selection criteria for the approval of an indication. Which substance was really used first in human history to “treat” mild or severe depression, however, remains a different question and should not be discussed conclusively here. The choices are alcohol and cannabis, just to name the two most consumed.


a) "Manufacture of the first antidepressant".
