3.1.1.1 for methamphetamine). From the end of 1937 Smith, Kline and Erench (SKF) was allowed to advertise amphetamine as an antidepressant (and many other indications, see also excursus anorectics) in major medical journals. This was formulated in such a way that almost everyone could feel addressed, and was - as usual for this time - very striking (see Fig. 3 and the illustration in the chapters mentioned). The same procedures worked for the launch of methamphetamine. The rapidly emerging addiction problems and strong ones. Side effects were not officially recognized until several years later, which ultimately led to the substances being included in the list of controlled substances in the 1960s. In 1969 the American FDA estimated the annual production at 10 billion tablets of 10 mg amphetamine. The problem of addiction was enormous (see Chapters 2.1 and 3.1.1.1), regardless of the indication for which amphetamine or methamphetamine was originally prescribed.



From anti-tuberculosis drugs to
first synthetic antidepressant

Hydrazine (3), which was still used as a rocket fuel in World War II, found its way into the Hoffmann-La Roche laboratories in the early 1950s, where it was combined with isonicotinic acid (4). The synthesized organic hydrazine derivatives showed potent antituberculosis activity in animal experiments. Selikoff and Robitzek were the first to notice that not only the physical condition of the patients with tuberculosis (TB) improved greatly, but also their mental health. In their publication (Tuberculosis chemotherapy with hydrazine derivatives of isonicotinic acid) in 1952 they described the exuberant mood in the tuberculosis clinic as follows: “a subtle general stimulation. . . the patients exchibited renewed vigor and indeed this occasionally served to introduce disciplinary problems "a) [14]. In their report, they scientifically and enthusiastically demonstrate the improvements that TB patients experienced when they were treated with iproniazid (Marsilid®, 1) and isoniazid (Rimifon®, 2). Obviously, these not only showed relief over the course of recovery, but developed a euphoria that lasted beyond the normal relief.
It was therefore not surprising that the good news was also being announced to the public outside of the specialist magazines. As an example, the extensive online archive of TIME magazine is used here. It proves what and how was published outside the specialist world and what relevance scientific research brought into people's everyday lives. A detailed article about the experiment was published in TIME magazine, which summarizes the happy states of the patients as follows: “In Staten Island's Sea View Hospital, patients who had taken the drugs danced in the wards, to the delight of news photographers "b) [15].


a) "a subtle general stimulation ... the patients showed renewed vigor, which indeed occasionally led to disciplinary problems."


b) “At Staten Island's Sea View Hospital, those patients who had taken the active ingredients danced in the hospital wards, much to the delight of the press photographers."
