Potency, decreased potential for protein binding - these are some of the headlines in case studies of F-substituted compounds from various areas of medicinal chemistry [3, 4].

The effects of several fluorine atoms become visible with drastic physicochemical consequences, especially on the trifluoromethyl group. Sterically, this is described as “slightly larger” than an isopropyl group. Depending on which model is chosen to estimate the volume, the CF3 group has the size of a tert-butyl radical or even a phenyl ring [4].

Due to its strong electron-withdrawing effect, fluorine has a sensitive influence on the dissociation constants of organic acids and bases. Acids become more acidic and bases less basic, and this effect can be measured using four carbon atoms. Due to the extremely strong bond between F and C atoms in organic molecules, organofluorine compounds are generally much more stable than the other organohalogen compounds (chlorine, bromine, iodine). Since fluoride is also a bad leaving group, aliphatic alkyl fluorides, in contrast to all other alkyl halides, are not classic alkylating reagents and at least in this regard are less toxic from a toxicological point of view. Another important factor that is one of the peculiarities of organofluorine compounds is the fact that a fluorine atom in an organic molecule can enable certain new interactions. On the one hand, the so-called multipolar interaction with a partially positively charged carbon atom (e.g. C-F ··· C = O). On the other hand, because of its electronegativity and its lonepair electrons - similar to oxygen, but less pronounced - it can act as an H acceptor. These two interactions can be important both intramolecularly, because the molecule adopts a certain conformation, but also intermolecularly, because it can interact with polar parts of a protein. Both factors can contribute to an improved bond and thus to a higher affinity [6].


Influence on basicity and acidity

The acidity and basicity of a hydrogen atom are of great importance for the effect of drugs. Whether it is protonated or deprotonated or charged or uncharged under physiological conditions, i.e. at pH 7.4, has a decisive influence on the distribution of a molecule in the body. This influences the possibilities of interaction with various proteins that can be responsible for the biotransformation or the actual effect.
For example, 2,2,2-trifluoroethylamine (16) is around 100,000 times less basic than ethylamine (13)! The protonated form of 16 is already slightly acidic with its pKa = 5.7. The influence of fluorine atoms on acetic acids is also impressive: trifluoroacetic acid (25) is approx. 34,000 times more acidic than acetic acid (22). It is also impressive that even with four sigma bonds, one CF3 group still has a significant influence: 4,4,4-trifluorobutylamine (21) is around 10 times less basic than butylamine (20) [4].
